 This topic we learned about nonlinear models (NEURAL NETWORKS AND DEEP LEARNING).   Like the human brain consists of interconnected neurones for information processing, neural systems follow the same formula and neural. Systems are great for complex, computation due to its structure like the brain and it's mainly used in image recognition, speech, processing etc.   Another algorithm of importance is the perceptron algorithm, which, like a linear, classiﬁer, determines the class membership through what is called weighted sums and functions, called activation functions. It reﬁnes predictions through wait adjustments, which basically forms the basis for neural network development.   Now we have what is called the multi layer perceptron, and is needed when trying to ﬁx non-linear classiﬁcation, which linear models are not able to tackle. What MLP does is incorporate hidden layers, which help it handled the complex patterns, and what is called the decision boundaries with more improved accuracy.   Overall, the multi layer perceptron characterises like an artiﬁcial brain or an artiﬁcial neural network structure and has an input, hidden section and output layers. Within the neural network neurons are able to apply activation functions, which enable speciﬁc information to be withdrawn and performing transformations. However, training happens with the weight adjustments and utilisation of an algorithm called back propagation.   The algorithm back propagation is very crucial technique which allows for training of the Multi layer, neural networks. By computing and propagating potential or actual errors backwards through the neural network, it is able to adjust the weights in order to minimise the errors. For eﬀective training in deep, neural, networks back propagation plays a very crucial role.   Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) excel at analysing visual data by leveraging spatial structures through convolutional layers. By capturing local patterns through ﬁlters and reducing dimensions via pooling layers, CNNs prove highly eﬀective for tasks such as image classiﬁcation and object detection.   Such as image classiﬁcation and object, detection, convolutional neural networks, excel. This is because they are able to analyse visual data by leveraging special structures through what is called convolution or layers. By doing this, it is able to capture local patterns through ﬁlters and reduce the dimensionality through what is called pooling layers  