Neural system basics    As a college student, learning the fundamentals of the nervous system has given me an intriguing understanding of how the human brain functions. I now understand that the nervous system is made up of linked neurones that enable signal transmission and body-wide communication. We are able to process information, regulate our motions, and sense our surroundings thanks to this complex network. I now have a better knowledge of the intricacy and effectiveness of the brain system because to my increased comprehension of terms like neurones, synapses, and neurotransmitters. My comprehension of numerous disciplines, such as neurology, psychology, and artificial intelligence, has increased as a result of this information.  Perceptron Algorithm    My undergraduate studies have been an eye-opening experience as I've learned  about the Perceptron algorithm. This method mimics the actions of a single neurone and was created in the context of artificial neural networks. I've been able to understand the principles behind pattern recognition and binary classification problems thanks to it. I've learned how a Perceptron can discriminate distinct classes by adjusting its weights and activation function by training it with labelled samples. The simplicity and efficiency of the Perceptron method have shown its relevance in the field of machine learning and created the foundation for more complicated models, such the Multilayer Perceptron.  Multilayer perception    One of the most important aspects of my academic research in the area of artificial  neural networks has been the Multilayer Perceptron (MLP). By adding more layers of neurones and expanding upon the Perceptron method, the MLP makes it possible for the model to perform more challenging tasks. The MLP can estimate nonlinear functions and gain knowledge from labelled data by using activation functions, weight modifications, and backpropagation. Several fields, including image recognition, natural language processing, and data analysis, have shown the value of this deep learning paradigm. I now have a thorough knowledge of the strength and adaptability of neural networks thanks to my study of the multilayer perceptron.  Backpropagation Algorithm    In my academic research on neural networks, the Backpropagation method has been crucial. This approach effectively modifies the weights of the network depending on the estimated mistakes to solve the difficulty of training Multilayer Perceptrons. The Backpropagation technique enables neural networks to learn from labelled input and enhance their performance over time by iteratively combining forwards and backwards propagation. In order to make precise predictions and optimise the      model's parameters, it has been essential for it to be able to propagate mistakes backwards through the network.  Introduction to deep learning    My exposure to deep learning as a university student has been both fascinating and transformational. The goal of deep learning, a subset of machine learning, is to train artificial neural networks with numerous layers to recognise hierarchical data structures. Speech recognition, natural language processing, and computer vision have all been transformed by this method. My curiosity has been piqued to investigate deep learning's immense potential and its effects on resolving challenging real-world situations after learning about its fundamentals.  CNN    Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have a great capacity for image and video processing, as I have discovered via my investigation of CNNs throughout my academic studies. Convolutional layers are used to extract significant characteristics from data with grid-like patterns, while layer pooling is used to condense the spatial dimensions of the model. CNNs are incredibly efficient at tasks like image classification, object identification, and picture segmentation thanks to their architecture's ability to automatically build hierarchical representations from raw pixel data. I've learned a lot about the design, parameter tweaking, and real-world uses of CNNs through studying them.  Application of CNN    Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and its numerous applications have  fascinated me throughout my undergraduate studies. In a variety of fields, including computer vision, medical imaging, and autonomous driving, CNNs have proven to perform exceptionally well. They have revolutionised processes like picture classification, object recognition, and facial recognition thanks to their capacity to extract complex patterns and characteristics from visual input. CNNs have also cleared the door for developments in augmented reality, video analysis, and even the creation of art. The applications of CNNs have shown their enormous potential, and this has motivated me to continue investigating their potential in practical contexts.        