 During the course so far we have discussed linear models including regression and classification models. When the model is non-linear we need to use Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). This topic we covered a brief introduction of Deep Learning techniques, neural networks, and the multilayer perceptron. This included:    Perceptron – The perceptron was first invented in 1958 by Frank Rosenblatt. In essence a  perceptron takes an input, applies some weight to it and if input by the weight exceeds some threshold the perceptron outputs a 1, otherwise outputs a 0.    Neural Networks – a Neural Network is a large network of perceptrons. It has multiple input  layer, a hidden layer (or multiple hidden layers) and then an output layer. It can be considered to be a black box, but in essence it is just a series of inputs, weights and outputs.   Multilayer Neural Networks – This is simply a Neural Network with multiple ‘hidden’ layers. As the complexity increases, so does the models ability to solve complex problems but also its computational draw.    Gradient Descent – Gradient Descent is a method of traversing a gradient using derivatives to find local minima, maxima and saddle points. Using this method we reduce the error and update the weights using this error function.    Back Propagation – as with gradient descent, back propagation aims to reduce the cost/error function. It does so by feeding an error backward through the network (output -> input). At each layer the error function is calculated and those errors are fed into the update function to adjust the weights and biases of the model.    Convolutional Neural Network – As with ANN, a CNN is a neural network that is used for  computer vision. The network has nodes that will fire when a certain condition is met. At the very simplest it could be for a black and white image, and will fire a 1 for white and a 0 for black. This way the network as a whole of regions can detect the image from edges and corners to faces and dogs. Modern CNN are highly capable at detecting colour, shape, face structure, vehicles and many more visual objects.  CNN can be used for non-visual purposes as well.  