Tristen Clifton 221211319 SIT307 (Topic 10)  Summarize the main points that is covered in this topic.  Artificial neural networks are inspired by the architecture of the human brain.  Neural networks allow feature transformation to be learned from data rather than be pre- defined.  Neural networks contain 3 parts, the input layer which data is presented, the hidden layer which is responsible for the data transformation, and the output layer.  The complexity of a neural network comes from 2 attributes, the count of hidden layers, as well as the number of neurons in each of those layers, the number of neurons does not have to be consistent between layers.  A neural network model needs to scale with the size of the input data, if the training dataset is small, an overly complex neural network can result in overfitting.  Neural networks are made from multiple layers of a type of linear classifiers known as perceptron’s.  A single neuron is very simple, it uses a decision surface (hyperplane) to generate an output, its confidence on this output is based on how close the input is to the decision surface.  Ensemble learning is the process of combining multiple models to solve a given problem,  Neural networks are necessary as not everything can be linearly separable, the simplest example being an exclusive or operation.  Backpropagation works by modifying the weights in each layer from back to front to continuously reduce the error of the network, this works by assigning higher value to neurons that provide higher influence on the correct decisions.  Autoencoders are neural networks where the centre layer contains less dimensions than the input layer but is still able to reliably reconstruct the data in the output, this means at the thinnest point of the network there is significant but reliable dimensionality reduction.  Provide summary of your reading list – external resources, websites, book chapters, code libraries, etc.  https://towardsdatascience.com/understanding-backpropagation-algorithm-7bb3aa2f95fd  https://duchesnay.github.io/pystatsml/auto_gallery/ml_lab_face_recognition.html     Reflect on the knowledge that you have gained by reading contents of this topic with respect to machine learning.  Most of this topic’s content was entirely new to me, I now have a much better idea of what a neural network is, how it works and how to make use of one. I think the most important thing I learned was that a complex neural network is often unnecessary and a rather simple one can do impressive things. I Think in my spare time I may attempt some online exercises regarding machine learning as I found this topic really engaging.  Attempt the quiz given in topicly content (10.15) and add screenshot of your score (>85% is considered completion of the task) in this report.        