 The topic 10 content starts with a reminder of the topics of Decision Trees and Random Forests covered in the previous topics, then introduces the topics which will be covered this topic, these include and further exploration of Random Forests, as well as Neural Networks, Perception and Multilayer Perception, and Deep Learning.  The content then moves to the topic of the Motivation and Inspiration behind Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), which is based on the system of the biological brain. Then the ideas behind ANN models are expanded on in detail, with the history and workings of the brain explained. The brain consists of many interconnected neurons, which helps us to connects ideas and thoughts together and to learn new skills or ideas. The concept of ANN models is based on the same system as the brain, utilising a system of interconnected artificial neurons to replicate the learning model in a biological brain.  Then the content explores the concepts of neural systems in detail, detailing the different components of neural network systems, which typically consists of an input layer, output layer, various hidden layers, combiners, and non-linear activation functions. The process of an ANN model sends the input via the input layer to the hidden layer which is then output to the output layer. The concept of complexity is explained, which is determined by the number of dimensions in the model, more complex models may be prone to overfitting when insufficient training data is provided.  The content then shifts to the topic of the perceptron algorithm, which is a linear (binary) classifier with a network consisting of a single layer, a neural network consisting of a multi-layer perceptron’s. These concepts are explained in detail including the fundamental mathematics behind the method.  A video expands on these concepts with a detailed explanation and mathematical demonstration, followed by a video introducing the neuroevolution of augmentation topologies (NEAT), with a demonstration of the Neural Network model learning how to play the classic video game Super Mario Brothers. The model learned how to complete the level without any human input, utilising a network of neurons, simulating the way that a human brain learns.  The content then explores the Motivation for multilayer perceptron, which explains the motivation for the development of a New Neural Network that was originally designed to handle the problem of non-linear separable problems, such as the XOR problem.  Then the content expands on the concept of the Multilayer perception, which is useful for solving complex problems with non-linear decision surfaces. The concepts and mathematical understandings behind multilayer perceptions are explained thoroughly. Then covers the concepts of Feedforward Neural Networks which send information in one direction without any cycles. An overview of the formulation of the MLP is provided with the mathematical concepts behind the process. Gradient-base Optimisation is also covered as a slight detour, proving a detailed explanation including the mathematical foundations. A video then explores these concepts in further detail, providing a visual demonstration and overview of the process as well as the mathematical principles underlying the method.  The content then introduces the concept of the Backpropagation algorithm and explains how this method is used for training MLPs. This algorithm takes input data and utilises a system of weights at the start of the process and updates them until reaching the stopping criteria. A video covers these ideas extensively, demonstrating the process while following the mathematics behind the technique. This video goes into detail and covers all steps of the process with an example to demonstrate the approach and its implementation in machine learning.  The content then provides detailed instructions on how to implement these concepts in Python code, with a thorough walkthrough of the code with explanations and details about the process provided to help understand the concepts behind the code. The code shows an example of how to implement concepts of the perceptron in Python code to fit linearly separable datasets with an example of a practical application of the method.  The content then shifts into the area of Deep Learning, starting with an introduction to the topic, which is explained as being a type of learning model based on a process of human reasoning, achieved by utilising a system similar to the approach used in ANN. Deep Learning models are very advanced and have achieved great results in multiple real-world applications including handwriting digit and image recognition. This topic is explored at great length in a comprehensive video presentation, including its real-world applications and capabilities to solve complex problems.  The content then explores the topic of Convolution Neural Networks (CNNs), which are designed based on the part of the brain that processes eyesight into images, known as the visual cortex. These concepts are expanded on to explain the three main concepts of CNNs: sparse interaction to reduce the number of dimensions, parameter sharing to share sets of weights, and translation invariance to allow for recognising images of objects with variations.  The content explores the topic of LeNe5 which was the original CNN. A video is provided that dives deeper into these ideas and visually illustrates the process to demonstrate how the CNN model processes data and learns by finding patterns that are detected in the coevolutionary layers with filters.  The content then expands on the applications of CNNs including real-world examples and implementations. An example of detecting the species of an animal in a provided dataset is used to show how CNNs use detection filters to identify specific patterns or features in the datasets to solve complex problems in machine learning such as image recognition. The three factors which have helped improve deep learning most are the developments in the capacity of handling large models, utilising large ImageNet datasets, and using fast GPUs. A video elaborates on these concepts with an example to show how this technique can be used for image recognition.  The content then moves the topic to the Autocoder, which is a neural network that can handle multiple hidden layers in its structure. Typically used as a method of dimensionality reduction, with the aim of learning a representation (encoding) of a dataset. The mathematical concepts are explained in depth, which is then explored further in a video to add more context and clarify the concepts.  The content then demonstrates how to implement Deep Learning in Python code, with an example and links to resources provided for more information on various Deep Learning topics and tools.  