Artificial  Neural  Network  (ANN)  is  inspired  by  the  structure  and  function  of  the  human  neural system,  it  is  used  for  both  linear  and  nonlinear  problems,  classification,  pattern  recognition  and decision making.  Neural networks allow feature transformation to be learnt from data rather, rather than using static feature transformations through kernel functions in the support vector machines. Neural network offers  flexibility  and  is able  to capture  complexity and  adopt during training when relationship between input and output is nonlinear, while often the use of kernel functions through SVM is insufficient in capturing the complexity of data accurately.  ANN contains three main types of layers, the input layer which receives input data, the output layer which is the final output, and there are hidden layers in between the input and output layer. There can often be multiple hidden layers, as the number of hidden layers increase, the complexity of the model increases.  Perceptron  is  a  simple  neural  network  used  for  binary  classification;  it  is  a  single  layer  neural network.  Through the use of weight, the perceptron divides input space into two regions linearly, creating two sides of hyperplane.  The position and orientation of the hyperplane is determined by the weight vector.  Objective of the perceptron algorithm is determining the optimal weight vectors (w)  during  training  iteratively,  to  find  the  most  suitable  hyperplane  that  can  accurately  separate different classes.  The process of perceptron learning algorithm includes an initialisation of weights and any biases to zero, input data (x) is then provided to the algorithm for training, iteratively the weighted  sum,  activation  function  to  the  weighted  sum  and  then  weights  and  biases  are  updated until the algorithm converges.  This model can then be used to make predictions on new and unseen data.    However,  if  a  set  of  training  data  can  not  be  separated  linearly,  the  perceptron  may  not converge,  and  it  might be unable  for  the algorithm  to separate these  data accurately.  Perceptron itself can be quite weak in performance and may not perform well for complex problems, therefore sigmoid function can be used to determine complex relationship between input features and output features.  Deep  Learning learn  through is  designed  to,  continually  and  automatically,  analyse  and interconnected  neurons,  like  how  a  human  brain  would  work  when  drawing  conclusions.    Deep learning is a form of advanced neural networks and can learn complex patterns in data by passing data  through  multiple  layers.    When  data  is  passed  through  each  layer,  the  network  continues  to learn, and the model is tuned to achieve better performance.  Convolutional  Neural  Networks  (CNN)  is  an  artificial  neural  network  typically  used  for  analysing images;  however,  it  can  also  be  used  for  processing  other  grid-like  data  such  as  videos  and  audio spectrograms, and other classification and data analysis problems.  CNN works by capturing patterns in data.  One special characteristic of a CNN is that it has convolutional layers, each of these layers have filters, and when an input is provided to a layer, a layer would detect the patterns, transform the input and pass them onto the next layer.  