 Topic 10 This topic's discussion covers neural networks, perceptrons, multilayer perceptrons, and deep learning, with a focus on the inspiration drawn from the structure and functions of the human brain.  The material begins with the motivation for developing neural networks, which are inspired by the highly parallel architecture of our brains. Neural networks are particularly useful when linear models are insufficient due to extremely nonlinear underlying functions or decision boundaries. Neural networks allow feature transformations to be learned from data, unlike support vector machines that use fixed feature transformations depending on the kernel function.  The structure of a typical neural network consists of an input layer, one or many hidden layers, combiners (sum functions), nonlinear activation functions, and an output layer. The complexity of a neural network can be varied, but caution is needed as more complex networks can result in overfitting if not provided with enough training data.  Perceptron, a linear binary classifier, and a single layer neural network are introduced. The limitations of perceptrons, particularly their inability to separate data points that aren't linearly separable, led to the development of multilayer perceptrons (MLPs). MLPs can handle complex, nonlinear decision surfaces.  The feedforward neural network, an artificial neural network where connections between units do not form a cycle, is discussed. Information in this network moves in only one direction, from the input nodes, through the hidden nodes (if any), and to the output nodes.  The topic of deep learning is introduced, which utilizes a layered structure of algorithms similar to artificial neural networks. Deep learning models are designed to analyze data continuously in a way that mimics human logic.  Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), a type of deep learning architecture modeled after the mammalian visual cortex, are discussed. CNNs process images in layers of increasing complexity and can recognize objects irrespective of their appearance.  Finally, the application of CNNs is discussed, with each network layer acting as a detection filter for the presence of specific features or patterns in the original data. The boost in the field of deep learning is attributed to the ability to model larger models with new training techniques, the availability of large datasets like ImageNet, and the use of fast graphical processing units (GPUs) capable of a trillion operations per second.  