Topic 10 summary  This topic we covered nonlinear models including neural networks and deep learning. By understanding the basic mathematical foundation of the perceptron and multilayer perceptron. And learnt how deep learning uses a layered structure of algorithms similar to ANNs.  Development of Artificial Neural Networks(ANNs) is motivated by biological neural systems. One group uses the brain as the motivation to design ANNs as effective learning machines, which might not result in a true model of the brain. The major players in a neural network system has   a typical neural network (machine) has an input layer; it has one or many hidden layers; it has combiners (sum functions); it has nonlinear activation functions; it has an output layer.  We have more complex, bigger neural networks because neural networks are compatible with high dimensional inputs and multi-label classification as shown in the figure below. It shows a complex neural network with 3 hidden layers and one high dimensional input layer with a 3-dimensional output layer.  Perceptron is a linear classifier (binary) and is a single layer neural network. A multi-layer perceptron  is called a neural network. A multilayer perceptron (MLP) is a deep, artificial neural network.  A neural network is comprised of layers of nodes which activate at various levels depending on the  previous layer’s nodes. When thinking about neural networks, it may be helpful to isolate your  thinking to a single node in the network. Multilayer perceptron refers to a neural network with at  least three layers of nodes, an input layer, some number of intermediate layers, and an output layer.  Each node in a given layer is connected to every node in the adjacent layers.     Deep learning is designed to continually analyse data with a logic structure similar to how a human would draw conclusions. To achieve this, deep learning uses a layered structure of algorithms similar to ANNs. Deep learning methods are advanced neural networks. They have been successful in learning many real-world tasks (e.g. handwritten digit recognition, image recognition).  In deep learning, a convolutional neural network (CNN) is a class of artificial neural network most commonly applied to analyse visual imagery. Convolutional neural networks are very good at picking up on patterns in the input image, such as lines, gradients, circles, or even eyes and faces. It is this property that makes convolutional neural networks so powerful for computer vision. Unlike earlier computer vision algorithms, convolutional neural networks can operate directly on a raw image and do not need any pre-processing.  An autoencoder is a special type of neural network that is trained to copy its input to its output. For example, given an image of a handwritten digit, an autoencoder first encodes the image into a lower dimensional latent representation, then decodes the latent representation back to an image. An autoencoder learns to compress the data while minimizing the reconstruction error.  Screenshot of quiz        