Neural Networks Artificial neural networks (ANNs), also known as neural networks, are one type of machine learning model that was influenced by the design and operation of biological neural networks in the human brain. (Chen, 2021)  Perceptron algorithm One of the fundamental algorithms for training artificial neural networks, specifically the single- layer perceptron neural network, is the perceptron algorithm. This algorithm divides input data into two classes using a decision boundary that is learned. Although the perceptron algorithm is reasonably straightforward and effective, it has some drawbacks. It is appropriate for linearly separable problems because it can only learn linear decision boundaries. Problems requiring non- linear decision boundaries cannot be solved by it. The limitations can be overcome, though, when used in conjunction with other perceptrons or as a component of more intricate neural network architectures like multilayer perceptrons. (Akshay Chandra Lagandula, 2018)  Motivation for multilayer perceptron Multilayer Perceptrons (MLPs) were developed as a result of single-layer perceptrons' limitations in solving complex problems requiring non-linear decision boundaries. By utilising multiple layers of neurones, MLPs, also known as feedforward neural networks, enable more versatile and potent modelling capabilities. (Torfi, 2019)  Backpropagation Algorithm Multilayer perceptrons (MLPs), among other multilayer neural networks, are trained using the backpropagation process. It makes it possible to compute gradients with respect to the weights of the network efficiently, which is essential for modifying the weights during the learning process. Backwards and forwards propagation are the algorithm's two key phases. (Wikipedia Contributors, 2019b)  Deep Learning  In order to learn from and make predictions from complex data, deep learning is a branch of machine learning that focuses on training artificial neural networks with numerous layers, or "deep neural networks." Due to its outstanding performance in a variety of fields, including image identification, natural language processing, speech recognition, and autonomous cars, deep learning has attracted a lot of attention and popularity in recent years. (Wikipedia Contributors, 2019c)  Deep learning has become an effective technique for extracting important information from large amounts of complex data. Its capability to automatically learn representations and hierarchical features from unstructured data, along with improvements in computer power and training methods, have sparked its broad acceptance and made a substantial contribution to the field of artificial intelligence. (IBM, 2023)  Convolutional Neural Networks  Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) are a particular form of deep neural network architecture made for processing and analysing structured grid-like input, such photos and movies. CNNs have completely changed the field of computer vision and excelled in tasks including picture segmentation, object identification, and classification. (Wikipedia Contributors, 2019c)  CNNs are potent tools for a variety of visual tasks since they have proven to be adept at learning from and extracting characteristics from images. They are especially well suited for analysing and comprehending visual data because of their hierarchical and local operations as well as their capacity to capture translation-invariant properties. The development of CNNs has considerably boosted computer vision and opened the door for a wide range of applications across different sectors. (Saha, 2018)  Autoencoder  An algorithm for unsupervised learning that is a member of the neural network family is called an autoencoder. By instructing the network to recreate the input at the output layer, it is intended to learn effective representations of input data.  Autoencoders have demonstrated potential in a number of fields, and their capacity to learn compact representations and reconstruct input data makes them an important tool for generative modelling and unsupervised learning tasks. (TensorFlow, n.d.)  