this topics learning outcome we learned about the data interconnection and the motivation and inspiration behind this is human brain’s neural system. we learned that the data set neural system is pretty much similar to the neural system of the brain. so the question rises how we can say that the neural brain system is similar to the dataset neaural system.With the brain in mind, let’s introduce the major players in a neural network system: ○ a typical neural network (machine) has an input layer; ○ it has one or many hidden layers; ○ it has combiners (sum functions); ○ it has nonlinear activation functions; ○ it has an output layer. Carefully pay attention to the important terms such as input layer, output layer and hidden layers. We can have more complex, bigger neural networks because neural networks are compatible with high dimensional inputs and multi-label classification. We also learned about the Perceptron algorithm to work with the machine learning neural system. Perceptron is a linear classifier (binary) and is a single layer neural network. A multi-layer perceptron is called a neural network. We also learned about the multi-layer perceptron. The inspiration behind multi-layer perceptron is simple OR and AND binary table that shows us the results in form of 0 and 1. A perceptron is quite weak in what it can represent. For complex, non-linear decision surfaces, we need a multi-layer network. Non-linear functions like the logistic, (also called the sigmoid function), output a value between 0 and 1 with an s-shaped distribution. Choice of node in a multi-layer network should be continuous but it should be a continuous meaningful function such as the sigmoid function.  Further more I gained the knowledge about logistic regression. logistic regression is also known as legit model. logistic regression is often used for classification and predictive analytic. Logistic regression estimates the probability of an event occurring, such as voted or didn't vote, based on a given data set of independent variables.    