A neural network is like a simplified model of the human brain. It's made up o nodes called neurons. Each neuron takes in some input and produces an output. In the beginning neural networks don’t know much but over time as it is fed more data it learns and becomes better.    The connections between neurons have weights associated with them. These weights determine how much influence each neuron has on the final output. The network adjusts these weights during training to make better predictions.    Once the neural network has been trained with a large amount of training data it can make predictions on unseen data.    Neural networks can work well when the decision boundaries are extremely nonlinear, they are more flexible than support vector machines (which can also deal with nonlinear decision boundaries), and they can learn feature transformation from the data.    A neural network is made up of:  o  An input layer which takes the input features which the neural network will use to learn about the data.  o  One or many hidden layers which form the majority of the ‘artificial brain’. They are responsible for processing the input data and determining the features or patterns that can make accurate predictions in the output layer.  o  Combiners (sum function) o  Nonlinear activation functions o  An output layer which is the response to the information learned, the predicted outcome.    The perceptron algorithm is a learning algorithm for training artificial neural networks. A perceptron is a single layer neural network used for binary classification, it has just one layer and one node. Combining multiple perceptron gives you a more complex neural network.    The perceptron algorithm works by o  Starts with either random weights and biases or with a low number. o  For each training data point calculates the weighted sum of input features multiplied by their weights. Bias is also added to this sum.  o  Apply an activation function to the weighted sum. The activation function in the original Perceptron algorithm is a step function that outputs 1 if the sum is greater than or equal to a threshold, and 0 otherwise. This step function etermines the output class of the perceptron.  o  Compare the predicted output with the true output. No changes are made to the weights and bias if the prediction is correct, if the prediction is incorrect weights and bias are adjusted based on a learning rate and the error signal.  o  Keep repeating the process for all incorrect predictions until the maximum number of iterations is reached.    A Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) is a type of artificial neural network that consists of multiple layers of interconnected nodes, called neurons. It is a feedforward neural network, meaning that information flows through the network in one irection, from the input layer to the output layer, without any cycles or loops.    Gradient-based optimization is a common approach used in machine learning and optimization problems to find the optimal values of parameters in a model. It involves iteratively updating the parameters based on the gradients of a loss function or an objective function.    The Backpropagation Algorithm is used to train a multilayer perceptron. It is used to update the weights of the neural network based on the error between the predicted output and the desired output. It works by:  o  Forward pass – feed input data to the neural network and the network computes its output by propagating the input through network layers. Each neuron receives the inputs and then applies weights and an activation function to the weighted sum of inputs and passes it to the next layer.  o  Error calculation – when the predicted output is reached the algorithm calculated the error by comparing it to the desired output. RMSE is usually used here. o  Backward pass – the algorithm starts from the output layer and works backward through the layers to compute the gradient of the error.  o  Weight update – after obtaining the gradients of all the weights and biases the algorithm updates to reduce error.  o  These steps are repeated until the number of iterations is reached or the error decreases to a suitable level.    A deep learning model is designed to continually analyze data with a logic structure like how a human would draw conclusions. Types of deep learning models include:  o  Convolution Networks o  Autoencoders o  Deep Belief Networks o  Boltzmann Machines o  Restricted Boltzmann Machines o  Deep Neural Networks    Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) are a type of artificial neural network that are specifically designed for processing structured grid-like data, such as images or time series. They have proven to be highly effective in various computer vision tasks, including image classification, object detection, and image segmentation.    Key layers in a convolution neural network are:  o  Convolution layer – this layer performs convolutional operations on the input data using a set of learnable filters or kernels. A feature map is produced by the filters sliding over the inputs to perform element-wise multiplications and summing up the results.  o  Activation layer – this layer is applied elementwise to the feature amps to introduce non-linearity to the network. Common activation functions used in CNNs include the rectified linear unit (ReLU) and the hyperbolic tangent (tanh).  o  Pooling later – this layer reduces the spatial dimensions of the feature maps while retaining the most important information. It partitions the feature map into small non-overlapping regions and computes a summary statistic within each region. Pooling helps make the network more robust.  o  Fully Connected Layer – One or more fully connected layers are added to the network. These layers connect every neuron from the previous layer to every neuron in the current layer. They learn high-level representations and make predictions based on extracted features.    An Autoencoder is a neural network which can handle many hidden layers in its structure. It learns a representation (encoding) for a set of data, typically for the purpose of dimensionality reduction. 