Following I have summarised the knowledge gained by the reading contents of this topic.  ➢  SVM : Support vector machines (SVMs) are supervised machine learning algorithms that can be used for classification, regression, and outlier detection. SVM is a powerful and widely used algorithm due to its ability to perform well on high-dimensional datasets, its versatility to handle various data types, and its ability to handle nonlinear decision boundaries. In SVM, the algorithm tries to find a hyperplane that divides the data points into different classes with the widest possible margin. Margin is the distance between the hyperplane and the closest data point for each bin. The closer the data points are to the hyperplane, the higher the uncertainty of the classification. Therefore, SVM tries to find hyperplanes with widest possible margins. That is, maximize the distance between the hyperplane and the closest data point.  ➢  Kernel:  In the context of machine learning, a kernel is a function that computes the similarity between two data points in a high-dimensional space. Kernel functions are often used in conjunction with support vector machines (SVMs) to solve classification and regression problems where the data may not be linearly separable. In SVM, kernel functions map input data into a high-dimensional feature space. In this space, the SVM algorithm can find the hyperplane that separates the data points with the largest margin. Core functions allow SVMs to operate implicitly in high-dimensional spaces without having to explicitly compute transformations to that space, which can be computationally expensive.  ➢  Polynomial Kernel : A polynomial kernel is a kernel function commonly used in machine learning, especially support vector machines (SVMs) that map input data into a high- dimensional feature space. A polynomial kernel function takes input data and maps it to a high-dimensional feature space by computing all possible polynomials of a certain degree of the original feature. The polynomial degree is a hyperparameter that determines the degree of nonlinearity of the model. For example, a degree 2 polynomial kernel will generate all possible combinations of feature pairs, while a degree 3 polynomial kernel will generate all possible combinations of feature triples.  ➢  RBF Kernel: A radial basis function (RBF) kernel is a popular kernel function in machine learning, especially support vector machines (SVMs) used to solve classification and regression problems. An RBF kernel is a nonparametric function that maps input data into a high-dimensional feature space.RBF kernels measure the similarity between two data points in the input space and project them into an infinite-dimensional feature space. Similarity between two data points is calculated using the Euclidean distance between the two points. The RBF kernel then computes the probability that two data points belong to the same class by measuring the similarity between them in the feature space.  