For topic 7 , we focused on SVM models, which are support vector machine models that use classification problems that utilise classification algorithms for two group classification problems. The areas that we covered to properly learn about SVM models included:  -  -  SVM formulation and solution for linearly separable data, which detailed its aim and how it can be used to optimise a given problem. It also briefly covered the dual optimisation problem, which is generally used with larger dimensions of data, and how we can apply Lagrange functions and multipliers to a problem.  SVM formulation and solution for linearly non-separable data; which explains noise in data, data being linearly separable, and how the soft margin concept is brought in, and that it uses slack variables to show the misclassifications of outliers. There is also the mention of the soft margin dual problem, which is defined when we change the primal problem with soft margins do dual.  -  Kernel trick and non-linear SVM; which explains the linear regression formulation which  includes the formula, and details on how to find a relationship between two variables, linear hypothesis, and how we can use estimates (average) to determine variable data, and how we can fit this line to points of data.  -  -  Support vector regression, which is a type of algorithm that aims to provide flexibility to determine how much error can be accepted into the current MLM, and to then help fit a line for the data.  Statistical Learning theory of SVM, and how SVMs are a popular algorithm to utilise with statistical learning theory, which essentially is a framework that is used to help understand how machines can learn from data.  -  Multi class classification in SVM, which can be done in one of two ways:  -  One vs All: Each class, a binary SVM classifier is trained with samples from the specific  class that is being observed as positive, and from other classes that are being viewed as negative.  -  One vs One: trains multiple binary classifiers, and each classifier is trained to distinguish  between the two classes.  