The topic 7 content starts by briefly recapping the topics covered in the last few topics, and then the content introduces the topics which will be covered in this module. This topic focuses on the key areas of linear SVM and non-linear SVM and various related concepts, including how to implement these techniques and ideas in Python.  The content then introduces the concept of SVM formulation and solution for linearly separable data, which covers the fundamental concepts behind the SVM, such as the concept of a hyperplane to represent the boundary between clusters and the idea of maximising the margin of the distance between the hyperplane and the data points of different clusters. The mathematical concepts of the SVM are explored in detail, which includes explaining the process of optimising the quadratic function.  The idea behind the dual optimisation problem is also covered in detail explaining the strategy to maximise and minimise the margin parameters accordingly, including mathematical explanations and instructions. A video also covers and expands on these ideas in more depth.  Then the content explores the concepts behind SVM formulation and solution for linearly non- separable data, which is when the data cannot be separated with a straight boundary line. This is typically due to the dataset containing a degree of noise. However, this noise should not affect the boundary line margin since these outliners can be ignored, which is the concept behind a soft margin which is when a higher level of noise is tolerated within the model to allow for better performance. The concept of the Soft margin dual problem is explored in detail, including the mathematical ideas.  The content then moves into the area of Kernel trick and non-linear SVM, when the concepts of Linear regression formulation are recapped and explained in detail, including a video that goes into depth about this topic.  The content then shifts to the ideas behind Support vector regression which starts by providing an example of a Linear Regression problem based on a previously covered example of a student aptitude test score to predict the students’ statistics performance. This is also covered in further detail in a video.  The content then moves into the area of Statistical learning theory of SVM which is covered in depth with mathematical explanations to back up the concepts. The content then explores the ideas behind Multi-class classification in SVM, including the different implementations of One vs all, and One vs One.  The content then covers how to implement these ideas practically using Python, which is covered in detail with various different code examples and explanations for how to calibrate and improve the models’ performance by adjusting the hyper-parameters, such as the ‘gamma’ and ‘C’ values of the SVC.  