S This topic's module was centered around understanding and using Support Vector Machines (SVM) for classification problems. SVMs are highly effective at solving classification tasks but can also be used for regression problems. The key to SVMs is their associated kernel functions which serve to map the data into higher dimensional space to better separate classes and therefore make better predictions.  The implementation of SVMs via Sklearn is relatively straight forward, the more interesting part of SMVs is tuning the hyperparameters to improve the model’s performance. The module was a great introduction into SVM and the importance of well-tuned hyperparameters.  Support Vector Machines (SVM)  A Support Vector Machine (SVM) is a supervised machine learning algorithm that can be used for classification and regression tasks. It's particularly well-suited for problems in high-dimensional space or datasets with complex decision boundaries. SVM is used to find the best hyperplane that separates data into different classes or make predictions based on independent variables like a linear regression model would.  The core concept of SVM is to maximise the margin between classes or minimise the error for regression problems. The margin is defined as the distance between the separating hyperplane and the closest data points from each class, which are called support vectors. By maximising the margin, the SVM ensures better generalisation performance, reducing the risk of overfitting.  SVMs are ideal when the focus is on the accuracy of the prediction and not so much how each of the independent variables contribute to the prediction and can handle linear and non-linear relationships between features and target variables. However, SVMs may not always be the best choice for large datasets, as training time can increase significantly with the size of the dataset.  Kernel Functions & The Kernel Trick  For non-linear problems, SVMs use a technique called the kernel trick to map the original data into a higher-dimensional space where a linear hyperplane can better separate the data. There are a number of different kernel functions used to achieve this. Some of the more common functions which were covered in this topic’s module are as follows:  Linear Kernel: The linear kernel function is the simplest of the kernel functions and is used when the relationship between the features and target variables is assumed to be linear. Unlike the following kernel functions it does not transform the data into high dimension spaces.  Polynomial Kernel: The polynomial kernel allows for more complex decision boundaries, capturing relationships between features that are not necessarily linear. Essentially a more generalized representation of the linear kernel function. The polynomial kernel function requires tuning of two key  parameters, the degree of the polynomial and the value of a constant. If not correctly tuned overfitting and underfitting issues occur.  Radial Basis Function (RBF): The RBF kernel can model complex, non-linear relationships between feature variables and is often considered the default algorithm of choice for SVMs. RBF is particularly useful when the data is not linearly separable. The function requires tuning of two key parameters, the first 𝛾,  controls the shape and flexibility of the decision boundary in the transformed feature space. A small gamma value results in a more flexible and wiggly decision boundary, while a large gamma value leads to a smoother, more rigid decision boundary.  The second, is the regularisation parameter also known as the cost parameter which controls the balance between maximizing the margin between classes and minimizing classification errors in the model. Like the Polynomial Kernel function, tuning these values incorrectly can result in suboptimal solutions that don’t generalize well.  