Supervised Learning Method:  Topic-5  In this method of learning the training set is labelled, with outputs which are already known. Supervised learning algorithm focuses on learning the relationship between the variable’s inputs and output. Such that it can predict the correct output when unseen data is given.  There are mainly two types of classification problem:  1.Classification:  As the name implies this method focus on classifying the inputs into different classes based on the predefined inputs.  2.Regression:  Regression on the other hand, is used to predict numerical values based on the input.  Generally, for Supervised learning method the data is split into training data and test data.  A model is build based on the training data and to check the accuracy of the model built. it is then applied on test data whose outputs are known to us. The machine learning algorithm predicts the outputs, and we evaluate the model with already known outputs and compare to help us understand how accurate the outputs was produced by algorithm were.  Overfitting and Underfitting:  As explained above, we make models based on the training data. Here the aim is to train the model such that it can accurately predict values when unseen data is given.  Overfitting - machine learning model is working too well on the training data but when provided to work on test data the prediction it has made are totally wrong. This is happened because the model is learning from additional details and noise. On the other hand, Underfitting – The machine learning model is not too complex, where it is unable to perform too well on the training data nor is unable to perform well test. To avoid both cases, it is necessary to identify where the model is not underfitting or overfitting.  Evaluating classification problems:  1.  Confusion matrix 2.  ROC curve 3.  F-1 Measure  Evaluating Regression Metrics:  1.  Mean Square Error 2.  Root Mean Square Error 3.  Means Absolute Error 4.  Explained Variance     