This module dives deeper upon the concepts of supervised learning, a form of learning that trains the algorithm with predetermined tests, allowing the algorithm to determine relationships from those tests. The module also addresses on the concept of model complexity and explains upon how complex modules must be for optimal accuracy and efficiency. If used wrong, either higher or lower, it would lead to overfitting or underfitting data. Through this, the module introduces and explains what the Occam’s razor is, with its principle being that “All other things being equal, the simplest solution is the best”, while also giving examples of how it is used. Classification (or evaluation) metrics are then used to determine how performance is measured and compared, with the module listing and explaining the many evaluation metrics such as Confusion metrics, finding the Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curve and through precision and recall (F-1 Measure).  Regression metrics is another important concept the module included, explaining the mathematical aspects of it. Furthermore, the module explains the details on model selection and then lists the multiple methods of splitting the data, through random subsampling, stratified sampling and cross validation. The module also explains hyperparameters, being a set value before the learning process, and further explains its importance and its usage when training data. Finally the module mentions one problem that can occur In machine learning in datasets is the effect of imbalanced classes, and how it can be overcome.  Through the understanding of the module, I am able to create and test datasets utilising random splitting, and after, can create a linear regression model, and can report its performance through finding the mean-squared-error, the model’s intercepts and the model’s coefficients. Furthermore, the understanding of this module allowed me to further test a dataset using leave-one-out based on subject ID and can create a linear regression model to find and compare its performance with my previous regression model.  