In this topic we studied about supervised learning algorithms and their working processes, model complexity, data positioning, finding best partitioning hyper-parameters, effects of imbalanced class distribution. We studied about structural risk minimization, confusion matrix, classification matrix, ROC curve, regression matrix, partitioning of data using different strategies for training and testing.  In supervised learning the algorithm learns from labeled dataset and then it’s good to produce predictions on new or unseen data. Classification, regression, time series prediction, object detection and natural language processing are the basic forms of supervised learning etc.  Model complexity is defined as complication of machine learning model, more complex model is able to capture more nuances in the data, but here the risk of overfitting is raised, so there are more chances that the model does not generalize the new data appropriately. Normally simple models are more preferred as they are easy to understand, interpret, maintain and less prone to overfitting also they are able to generalize the new data better.  Data positioning is a process of preparing and organizing data for input into a machine learning model, this process includes data cleaning, feature engineering and data normalization. In order to get the appropriate result and proper functioning of any model, data positioning is crucial. It ensures that the data input data input is of high quality, relevant and properly scaled, it improves models accuracyand reduces overfitting. As per Occam’s Razor principle, a simple model is more likely to be correct than the complex one. Model evaluation matrix is used to access the performance of machine learning models.  Structural risk minimization is a process to strike a balance between model complexity and the ability to generalize to new data, it can be implemented using regularization technique or cross validation to select the best model. ROC curve is used to evaluate and compare the performance of different classification model to choose the best performing model based on the requirement.      