A type of machine learning called supervised learning uses labelled examples to teach the algorithm how to map input to output. The two primary types of supervised learning are as follows: (Wikipedia Contributors, 2019)    Classification   Regression  Model complexity - The ability of a model to adapt or fit the training data is referred to as model complexity. In contrast to a complex model, which might have too much capacity and overfit the training data, a simple model might not have enough capacity to capture the underlying patterns in the data. (Kumar, 2022)  Classification metrics - The notion of structural risk minimisation seeks to strike a compromise between a model's accuracy and complexity. Finding a model that minimises predicted risk which is the result of adding the training error and a complexity penalty term is the goal. Classification metrics are used to evaluate the performance of a classification model. Common classification metrics include accuracy, precision, recall, F1 score, and ROC AUC. (Agrawal, 2021)  Regression Metrics - The effectiveness of a regression model is assessed using regression metrics. Mean squared error (MSE), root mean squared error (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE), and R- squared are typical regression measures. RMSE is the square root of MSE, which assesses the average squared difference between the anticipated and actual values. The average absolute difference between the expected and actual values is measured by MAE. R-squared measures the percentage of the target variable's variation that the model can account for. (Agrawal, 2021a)  Hyperparameters - The learning rate, regularisation strength, and number of hidden layers in a neural network are examples of hyperparameters, which are parameters that are specified prior to training a model. Finding the correct hyperparameters for a model is crucial since it has a significant impact on how well the model performs in machine learning. Techniques like grid search, random search, or Bayesian optimisation can be used to achieve this. (Wikipedia Contributors, 2019a)  Effect of imbalanced classes - Instance counts inside one class that are much lower than those within another are referred to as "imbalanced classes." Due to the model's potential bias towards the majority class and potential bad performance on the minority class, this can lead to issues with machine learning. The problem of unbalanced classes can be addressed utilising strategies like oversampling the minority class, under sampling the majority class, or employing weighted loss functions.  