The topic 5 content starts by introducing the fundamentals of Supervised Learning which is the main topic of this topic. In this and next topic the content will cover model complexity, model assessment, and model selection. The aim of topic 5 and 6 is to learn how to differentiate supervised from unsupervised learning, estimate performance of various supervised learning models, and implement model selection and compute the relevant evaluation measures.  Supervised learning is the most popular machine learning approach and is the most commonly used method in practice. One key feature of supervised learning is the use of training data to train the algorithm using pre-defined labels containing the right answers. This training data is used to find patterns in the relationship between the input and output, then map the input to the corresponding output using a mapping function. Ultimately supervised learning is the process of estimating a function from labelled training data.  The content then introduces the different forms of supervised learning, which fall into three main types of problems, Regression problems (Linear Regression, Logistic Regression), Classification problems (Support Vector Machines, Decision Trees, Random Forests, Neural Networks: Perceptron and Multi-layer Perceptron), and Ranking problems.  Then the content introduces the concept of the supervised learning algorithm and the process and mathematics involved. The concept of Hypothesis space is explained, and how it is expressed mathematically. Then the ideas and concepts of loss and empirical risk are explored.  The content then shifts to the topic and concept of model complexity, which is explained in detail using images and a YouTube video on the topic of complexity and overfitting. The principle of Occam’s razor and its application in the model complexity is discussed briefly.  Then the content moves to the area of structural risk minimisation, where the concept and mathematical formula is explored, as well as its applications.  The content then explores the topic of classification metrics, including why they are important in evaluation machine learning models. The confusion matrix is also explained in detail, along with the mathematical formula and calculations, including diagrams and charts to illustrate the concepts. The ROC Curve is explained with diagrams to accompany the text for visualisation of the curve on the graph. The f-1 measure is also covered briefly, along with the mathematical formula.  The content then explores the area of Regression Metrics, with a brief history and definition of regression, then into the practical applications in machine learning. The concept of Mean Square Error (MSE) is explained along with the mathematical formula to calculate its value. The Explained Variance (R2) or R-square is covered in detail with mathematical solutions and graphical illustrations, followed by a YouTube video on the topic of Standard Error of the Estimate used in Regression Analysis (MSE).  The topic of Partitioning data for training and testing is then explained in detail, including the reasons why its important, and an overview of the entire process. The ideas of sub-sampling and  Stratifies sampling and cross validation are explained as well as the benefits each provide. A YouTube video then also summaries these concepts.  The content then shifts into the area of Hyperparameters, starting with how to find the best hyperparameters, and their definition. Then in more detail covers what hyperparameters are, why they are required, and how to find the best hyperparameters for a particular model. This process is covered in detail, followed by the concept of Internal cross-validation and the process.  The effect of imbalanced classes is then explored along with the issues that arise and how to solve them, followed by some brief examples.  The content then shifts to python code implementations of supervised learning algorithms and concepts in practice. These instructions are thorough and detailed, including detailed explanations to accompany the code. These help to put into practice the concepts covered in this topics content.  