The major topics that were covered during topic 8 include KNN algorithm, its theory and variants, finding the best number of neighbours, decision trees, regression trees, classification trees, decision tree algorithms, model complexity and pruning, and the merits and demerits of using decision trees. Also explored using python to implement some of the most important topics mentioned above. The primary reference source was the unit site contents along with the external video links and articles provided.  The initial phase dealt with KNN algorithm and its variants. The theory of KNN was explained with the help of Voronoi diagrams. Later, I understood that the K-max values are decided based on the data points and there is no specific rule in selecting it. Next I explored a new topic namely decision trees which starts an event with a single node which then branches into possible outcomes. Then, I got a chance to learn about regression trees which are decision trees that use a regression model. The next topic was classification tress which was very similar to regression trees but the former has a qualitative response instead of the quantitative response in the latter. Then I took a deep dive into some popular decision tree algorithms including Iterative Dichotomiser 3 (ID3), C4.5 (Successor of ID3), CART (Classification and Regression Tree) with special emphasis to ID3. This also helped in understanding the correlation of tree depth and the chances of finding points in a particular sub region. This was followed by learning about pruning which is a technique that helps in reducing the size of decision trees by removing sections of tree that provides little power to classify instances. The types of pruning including pre-pruning and post-pruning was also discussed. The advantages and disadvantages of using decision trees was also discussed in a detailed fashion. During the final phase, I acquired knowledge about implementing KNN in python and creating advanced visualizations. Also explored decision trees in python by making use the sklearn library.  Screenshot of completion of topic 8 quiz:      