Main points covered in Topic 8  1.  Decision Trees  Decision tree is also a supervised machine learning algorithm. Predictions are made using decision  trees  that  are  learned  from  the  data.  There  are  many  nodes  and  branches  in decision  trees.  Each  stand  for  a  choice  that  must  be  made.  Each  branch  reflects  the potential result of that choice. Data with known results are fed to the decision tree to train it.  By  determining  the  most  effective  method  for  dividing  the  data  into  groups  with comparable outcomes, the decision tree learns to make predictions. Both classification and regression problems can be performed using decision trees. Although decision trees are an effective machine learning tool, they are susceptible to overfitting.  KNN  The non-parametric supervised learning method KNN, also known as k-nearest neighbors, can be applied to classification and regression problems. It operates by locating the k data points that are most similar to a new data point, and then classifying the new data point to match the majority of its neighbors.  The hyperparameter used is k. The user must select the value of the hyperparameter k beforehand. If k is little, the decision boundary will be more regionally focused, and if k is big,  the  choice  border  will  be  more  globally  focused.  The  best  value  for  k  will  vary depending on the dataset and issue being addressed.  Regression Tree  Regression trees are  used to  predict  continuous data.  The  data  are  recursively  divided into smaller and smaller groups until each group only includes one data point, at which time the tree is constructed. The group that a new data point belongs to is then used to predict its value.  Classification Tree  A decision tree used to predict a categorical values, such as a class label, is classification tree. Recursively dividing the data into smaller and smaller groups until each group only  includes data points belonging to the same class, the tree is constructed. The group that a new data point belongs to is then used to calculate the anticipated lass for that data point.  Reflection on the knowledge gained.  To overcome the challenges faces on a nonlinear model, these models are used. The independent and dependent variables are not assumed to have a linear relationship in nonlinear models. This indicates that the relationship between the change in the dependent variable and the change in the  independent  variable  is  inverse.  When  there  is  a  nonlinear  relationship  between  the independent and dependent variables, nonlinear models can be more precise than linear models. However, compared to linear models, nonlinear models might be more complex and challenging to comprehend and analyze.  