  K-nearest neighbor (knn) is a supervised machine learning algorithm used for regression and classification tasks.    Knn is based on an idea that data points which are close to one another will be similar to one another. The k value is set to determine how many of the closest data points should be considers (i.e k= 2, 2 closest data points considered, k=5, 5 closest data points considered).   Once a value for k has been set the distance between the new data points and the existing data points is measured (usually using Euclidean distance) to determine which are closer   Then the k closest datapoints are examined based on what you are trying to classify and the majority class of the k nearest data points is applied to the new data point If the problem is a regression problem instead of assigning the majority class of the nearest neighbors the mean value of the k nearest data points is applied to the new data point.   The Voronoi diagram is a geometric concept that helps divide a space into regions based on proximity to a set of data points. It can sometimes be beneficial to assign weights to the different neighbors being considered in a knn algorithm as some may be much closer to the new data points than others (i.e the closest neighbor vs the one furthest away).    The value of k control the shape of the decision boundary. If the k value is small the classifier is more focused on close region and neighbors which results in low boas and high variance. If the value of k is large results in smoother decision boundaries with lower variance but increased bias. A higher value of k is considering a larger set of data points when doing classification/regression and may miss some detail that would have been picked up by a lower value of k.    You can use hyperparameter tuning to find the best value of k. Grid search and cross validation can be used to do this.    A decision tree is an algorithm that uses a tree-like model to make predictions or classify data based on input features.    The algorithm starts at the root node, which represents the entire dataset. It then looks at a feature and creates a decision node based on that feature and continues to make decision nodes for each feature in the dataset until every feature is accounted for.    Decision trees that use a regression model are called regression trees. Unlike classification trees that predict categorical labels, regression trees aim to estimate a numeric output based on input features.    A regression tree is structured in a similar way to a decision tree, with a root node, decision nodes, and leaf nodes. However, instead of making categorical decisions at each node, regression trees make decisions based on numerical thresholds.    At each decision node, the algorithm chooses a feature and a threshold to split the data based on that feature. The algorithm continues to create decision nodes based on different features and thresholds, recursively splitting the data into smaller subsets. It aims to find the splits that minimize the overall variance of the target variable within each subset.   When creating the leaf nodes, instead of assigning a class label as in classification trees,  regression trees assign a predicted value. During the training process, the regression tree algorithm learns the relationships between the input features and the target variable. It recursively creates splits and determines the predicted values at the leaf nodes to minimize the difference between the predicted and actual values in the training data.    Gini impurity and entropy are two commonly used measures in decision trees to evaluate the quality of a split and determine the optimal splitting criteria.    Gini impurity is a measure of the probability of incorrectly classifying a randomly chosen element in a dataset if it were randomly labeled according to the distribution of classes in that subset. It quantifies the impurity or disorder in a set of samples.    Entropy measures the average amount of information or uncertainty in a set of samples. It is based on the concept of information theory and is calculated by summing the negative probabilities of each class multiplied by the logarithm of those probabilities.    Both Gini and Entropy fall within a range of 0 to 1   There are three common decision tree algorithms  o ID3 (Iterative Dichotomiser 3) which uses entropy to determine the best features for splitting the data.  o  C4.5 (Successor of ID3) which is an extension of ID3 that uses information gain ratio, considering both information gain and feature split information, to determine the best features for splitting the data.  o  CART (Classification and Regression Tree) which constructs binary trees by recursively partitioning the data based on the best feature and threshold that minimize the impurity or maximize the information gain.     Tree depth refers to the length of the longest path from the root node to any leaf node in the tree. The depth of a tree determines the complexity and the number of decisions required to reach a prediction. If you have a shallow tree it may mean the training data has low variance and you may have problems with bias. If you have a deep tree the training data has high variance.  Pruning is a technique that reduces the size of decision trees by removing sections of tree that provide little power to classify instances.    Advantages of decision trees include:  o  They are easy to understand because they represent rules o  They are capable of modelling nonlinear functions o  They can handle categorical variables (i.e. not just numerical, no need for hot-one encoding)    Disadvantages include:  o  They can be sensitive to small changes in the data o  They can overfit easily o  They are not as accurate as SVM or neural networks  