TOPIC 8: NON-LINEAR MODELS (KNN AND DT)  Concept of KNN and its variant as KNN is based on an ensemble  ● approach to remove the problem of having a fixed “k” parameter for classification.  Theory of KNN, it is a non-parametric, supervised learning  ● classifier, which uses proximity to make classifications or predictions about the grouping of an individual point.  Learning on how to pick the variable K which holds the number of  ● neighbours and how important it is selecting the right variable K.  Concept of decision trees as decision tree is a map of the possible  ● outcomes of a series of related choices. It is a type of classification algorithm that comes under supervised classification. Example is online shopping that is buying something from any online portal where we get several recommendations based on what we are buying.  Regression trees, it is a decision tree that uses regression model.  ● It also refers to an algorithm where the target variable where the target variable is, and the algorithm is used to predict its value. Example is predicting the selling price of a residential house.  Classification trees, it is used to predict a qualification response.  ● Example is predicting whether a person is going to be an astronaut, depending on their age, whether they like dogs, whether they like gravity.  Decision tree algorithms, it can be used for both regression and  ● classification task. How they can be used to solve real-world problems as well as the variety of algorithms.  Model complexity and pruning as pruning is a technique that  ● reduces the size of decision trees by removing sections of the tree that provide little power to classify instances.  ●The concept of advantages and disadvantages of decision trees.  The impact of distance metrics on KNN performance.  Concept of KNN and decision trees in python, coding.  REFERENCS  Comparative performance analysis of K-nearest neighbour (KNN) algorithm and its different variants for disease prediction, Shahadat Uddin, Ibtishham Haque, Ergun Gide, 12, Article number: 6256 ()2022  Decision Tree, Aditya Kumar, Jun 8, 2022  Decision trees for Classifications, Pumalin, Jan 1  Decision Tree Algorithm, Anshul Saini, Published On August 29, 2021 , 2023. and Last Modified On May 12  