 In  topic  8  of  my  Machine  Learning  course,  I  learned  everything  there  is  to  know  about  k- Nearest  Neighbours  (KNN)  models  and  decision  trees,  two  prominent  and commonly  used supervised  learning  algorithms  for  classification  and  regression  applications.  This  topic's material  provided  useful  insights  into  different  elements  of  KNN  models,  including  the algorithm, its variations, and the theory behind them, as well as decision trees, regression and classification trees, and model complexity and pruning strategies. These insights are critical for optimizing the performance of KNN models and decision trees when applied to real-world applications.  We began the topic by examining the KNN method and its variations, which are based on the notion of making predictions using the k-nearest neighbors of a data point. The KNN technique is an instance-based learning approach, which means that it directly uses the training data during the prediction phase rather than building an explicit model. We investigated the theory underlying KNN, which assumes that data points with comparable attributes are more likely to have similar output values.  The Best Number of Neighbours (K) to utilize for prediction is an important feature of KNN models. We discovered that selecting an acceptable value for K is critical for establishing a fair balance between overfitting and underfitting, resulting in a superior model performance.  Following that, we looked at Decision Trees, which are strong and interpretable models that may  be  utilized  for classification and regression problems. Regression Trees, which predict continuous  output  values  by  recursively  dividing  the  input  space  into  regions  and  fitting  a constant  model  throughout  each  zone,  were  introduced  to  us.  Similarly,  we  investigated Classification Trees, which predict class labels using a similar partitioning strategy but with a different data-splitting criterion.  Understanding Model Complexity and Pruning Techniques, which assist minimize overfitting and increase the model's generalization performance, is an important part of decision trees. We  talked  about  two  types  of  pruning:  pre-pruning  (forward  pruning)  and  post-pruning (backward  pruning).  Pre-pruning  entails  halting  the  tree's  growth  before  it  gets  unduly complicated, and post-pruning involves removing branches from a fully-grown tree based on a predetermined criterion. Both strategies seek to simplify the tree structure and lower the likelihood of overfitting, resulting in improved generalization of previously unknown data.  Finally,  topic  7  gave  an  in-depth  overview  of  KNN  models  and  decision  trees,  covering fundamental  principles  and  applications  in  supervised  learning.  This  topic's  learning  has prepared us to use KNN models and decision trees for a variety of real-world challenges, as well as optimize their performance for the best outcomes. This understanding is required to fully use the capabilities of these varied and powerful machine-learning techniques.    