This topic’s unit topic was Nonlinear models; the unit focused on the K nearest neighbors and decision tree algorithms. Similar to previous topics, the unit site consisted of conceptual and mathematical theory as we as examples of implementation in Python.  The first topic covered was KNN, a supervised learning algorithm that can be used for both classification and regression tasks. The algorithm uses a distance metric to measure the distance from a data point to its nearest neighbor. The datapoint is then included in the same group as its neighbor. The algorithm can be adjusted to use multiple data points to do this comparison, this is the hyper-parameter K. When used for classification tasks, the KNN assigns the class by including it in the class with the majority of data points closest to it, while for regression tasks the mean or weighted average is used. There are a number of factors that can influence the KNN algorithm, chief among them is the K value. The higher to K value which can affect the performance of the algorithm.  The second major topic covered was decision trees. Decision Trees can also be used for both classification and regression tasks. They take their name from the data structure, tree, which is used to represent / process the algorithm. The internal nodes of a tree represent the features or refinement of a feature, while leaf nodes represent the final result. Decision trees start with the dataset at the root of the node, then optimal conditions are used to split the dataset, until it reaches a leaf node which represents the results of the algorithm. Decision trees can be very computationally expensive if they tree to fully evaluate all paths, that is why techniques are used to prune paths that do not lead towards an optimal result. Two popular types of decision trees are Classification and Regression Trees (CART) and Iterative Dichotomiser 3 (IDS3). Decision trees can be prone to overfitting and may not perform as well as some other algorithms, but despite this they are widely used.  The last topic of the unit was the implementation of KNN and Decision Trees using Python.  