 This topic’s content focussed on dimensionality in data. In high dimensional spaces, data points do  not have close neighbours in comparison to low dimensional spaces due to an exponential increase  in regions. As the available data becomes sparse, it is more difficult to apply machine learning  algorithms to it because of the lack of neighbours to each data point. As a result of this, a  phenomenon known as the concentration effect arises, in which distances between data points  difficult to interpret and less distinct.  To address the issues which arise from the Curse of Dimensionality, a number of dimensionality  reduction techniques can be employed. Irrelevant or unimportant variables can be removed, and  variables that are similar or identical can possibly be grouped. Singular Value Decomposition is a  technique from linear algebra that can be used in dimensionality reduction. In this technique, a  matrix is factorised into three matrices, the highest singular values are considered and a subset of  the most important singular vectors is selected. When the matrix is reconstructed, it now contains  the most significant singular vectors, which still provide a concise representation of the original data.  Principal Component Analysis can also reduce dimensionality. It does this by first calculating the  covariance matrix of the data, which describes how much variables change together. It then  identifies a new set of axis known as the principal components, along which the remaining data  points are spread out. Next, the data is transformed and projected onto this set of principal  components. PCA allows for a reduction in dimensionality by potentially choosing to keep only a  subset of the principal components that show the most variation in the data. This retains the most  important information, while making the dataset more manageable.  I found that finding resources with visualisations help my understanding of dimensionality in data. I  found PCA a particularly challenging concept to grasp, so finding a range of resources that all  explained it slightly differently was important and helped me to gain a deeper understanding.  