In this topic's focus is on exploring concepts related to solving the curse of dimensionality, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, principal component analysis (PCA), and implementing PCA using Python programming. Last topic, the basics of clustering and Python programming were covered. We also come to know about the challenges that arise when analysing and organizing data in high-dimensional spaces. In some examples, we saw the typical dimensions of different types of data. For text data, a news website can have more than 10,000 dimensions when extracting words from news documents. For image data, using pixels as features can result in 4,096 dimensions for a single image. Lastly, genomic data, such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease case-control data, can have hundreds of thousands of Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) as dimensions. Then we come to know about the curse of dimensionality, This is a challenge faced in machine learning when working with highly-dimensional data, where the volume of the space increases so fast that the available data become sparse. As the number of dimensions increases, the number of regions grows exponentially, and as a result, each data point has more and more room, making it challenging to identify neighbours. Additionally, intuitions drawn from low-dimensional spaces fail in high dimensions. The concentration effect is another problem related to the curse of dimensionality, which reduces the utility of measures to discriminate between near and far neighbours, making clustering or KNN algorithms meaningless in high dimensions. However, there might still be patterns in high dimensions that need better distance metrics, and reducing the dimensionality of the data is an alternative to mitigate these issues. After getting knowledge about dimensionality we also learnt about the concept of dimensionality reduction, which refers to the process of converting data with high dimensions into data with fewer dimensions while still conveying similar information concisely. We also see some examples of dimensionality reduction using projection vectors in linear data with high dimensions, where some features might be irrelevant or redundant.  After learning some of the basic concepts we learnt about Eigenvalues and eigenvectors which are important concepts in linear algebra, used in the analysis of linear transformations. Given a square matrix, if a number (eigenvalue) and a vector (eigenvector) satisfy a certain condition, then the eigenvector is said to be associated with that eigenvalue. It is possible to have matrix multiplication be the same as just multiplying the vector by a constant (eigenvalue) for certain matrices. The number of nonzero eigenvalues for a matrix is equal to its rank. Eigenvalues of a matrix can be found by solving its characteristic polynomial. Eigenvectors corresponding to a particular eigenvalue can be obtained by solving a system of linear equations. Additionally, The eigenvalue decomposition of a matrix involves expressing it as a product of an orthogonal matrix and a diagonal matrix consisting of the eigenvalues. Orthogonal matrices rotate or reflect vectors without changing their length. The next concept we learnt was Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) which is a mathematical method used to break down a matrix into three smaller matrices. This allows us to better understand the properties of the original matrix. The SVD consists of a diagonal matrix with singular values and two orthogonal matrices. The singular values tell us about the importance of each dimension in the data, and the orthogonal matrices help us understand how the data is related to these dimensions. Finding the SVD requires calculating the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the original matrix. After learning concepts, we learnt a method known as Principal Component Analysis (PCA) which is a method used to summarize a set of data   points in a new set of uncorrelated axes called principal axes or components. The first principal component captures as much of the variation in the data as possible. The covariance matrix is a matrix that contains variances of all variables on the diagonal and co-variances among all pairs of variables in the off-diagonal entries. The main goal of PCA is to rigidly rotate the original axes to a new set of principal axes that have the highest variance and are uncorrelated. This is called the decorrelation property.  Moreover, In this topic's learning, we discovered various ways to pick and assess machine learning models, such as train-test split, cross-validation, and grid search. We also discussed how ensemble learning can enhance the performance of weaker models by merging them into stronger ones. We utilized external resources like Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Towards Data Science, and The Elements of Statistical Learning to study and visualize machine learning models. By using multiple libraries in Python this topic I got familiar with many concepts. Additionally, Through this topic's lessons, we discovered the importance of data preprocessing, model selection, and evaluation in the machine learning pipeline, and how to apply clustering, dimensionality reduction, and ensemble learning to real-world problems. As a result, we have gained confidence in our understanding of machine learning concepts and their real-world applications.  I am attaching my this topic quiz result with this document –      