Summary  Concentration effect:  It is observed that the relative contrast between near and far neighbors diminishes in high dimensionality space. This is called the concentration effect of distance.  This results into problems like:  1)  Clustering using KNN seems useless on a high scale. Thus, there arises a need to  compute better distance metrics.  2)  Until a better distance metric has been found, always aim to reduce the dimension.  Solving the concentration effect problem:  Conclusion:  Successfully reduced the dimension of the data into one dimension using the projection vector.  Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors:  Eigenvectors:    unit vectors having magnitude equal to 1.   They are referred to as right vectors.  Eigenvalues:    They are coefficients applied to eigenvectors that give the vectors their length or  magnitude.  Why is there a need for Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues in machine learning?    These Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues are used in the most popular dimensionality    reduction techniques. In PCA these concepts help in reducing the dimensionality of the data resulting in simpler model which is computationally efficient and provides greater generalization accuracy.   Singular value decomposition:  It is the method of decomposing a matrix into three other matrices as: 𝑋  = 𝑈𝑆𝑉𝑇  PCA:  The aim of PCA is to take n data points in d dimensions, which may be correlated, and summarize them by a new set of uncorrelated axes.  Where:    Uncorrelated axes are called principal components.   These axes are linear combination of original d dimensions.   The first k components capture the max variance among the data points as  possible.  Covariance:  Covariance is how change in one variable is associated with change in another variable. Degree to which the variables are linearly correlated is stated as covariance.   A covariance matrix is the one that has variances of the variables present on the diagonal and covariances of the variable in the off-diagonal entries.  Steps for PCA:    Standardize the data.   Calculate the covariance matrix.   Calculate the eigenvalue and eigenvectors.   Choose principal components: they are the eigenvectors with the highest  eigenvalue.    Transform the data into lower dimensional space.  Applications of PCA:    Used to visualize multidimensional data.   Used to reduce the number of dimensions in healthcare data.   PCA can help resize an image.   PCA can help find patterns in high-dimensional datasets.  ICA:      Independent component analysis is machine learning approach in which multivariate data is decomposed into distinct non- gaussian signals. It decomposes the mixed signal into the signals of its separate sources.  