Topic 4 Notes    Dimensionality in Data – organising data in high-dimensional spaces  o  Text data – the size of word dictionary extracted from news documents o o  Genomic data – Parkinsons disease has 408,803  Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)  Image Data – 64 x 64 pixels image equals to 4096 dimensions.    The curse of dimensionality dictates that as the number of dimensions increases, the number of  regions grows exponentially. In other words, when the dimensionality increases, the volume of the space increases so fast that the available data become sparse and somehow not useful anymore.    The Curse of Dimensionality calls for Dimensionality Reduction. Dimensionality reduction refers to  the process of converting a set of data having vast dimensions into data with fewer dimensions while still making sure that it conveys similar information concisely.    Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors    Singular value decomposition    Principal Component Analysis, the goal of PCA is to take n data points in d dimensions, which may be correlated, and summarises them by a new set of uncorrelated axes. The main objective of PCA is to rigidly rotate the axes of dimensional axes to a new set of axes (called principal axes) with the following properties:  o  Ordered such that principal axis- captures the highest variance, axis-2 captures the next  highest variance, …. , and axis-d has the lowest variance  o  Covariance among each pair of the principal axes is zero (the principal axes are uncorrelated  i.e. they are orthogonal to each other). This is called decorrelation property    Other dimensionality reduction techniques:  o  Independent component analysis (ICA) is a method of separating a multivariate signal into independent, non-Gaussian components. Commonly used to separate signals that are mixed, i.e. a complex sound or image signals.  o  T-SNE (t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding) is used to visualise high-dimensional data in two or three dimensions. It works by finding patterns and relationships in the data and then representing those patterns in a lower-dimensional space to reduce the complexity of the data.  