The Curse of Dimensionality arises when applying machine learning algorithms to highly-dimensional data.  In machine learning we face unique problems when analysing and organising data in high- dimensional spaces. When the dimensionality increases, the volume of the space increases so fast that the available data become sparse. This is really problematic since there isn’t enough data locally.  At its core, the curse of dimensionality, dictates that as the number of dimensions increases, the number of regions grows exponentially. As the number of regions grows and space increases each data point has more and more room. That makes our data sparse and somehow not useful anymore.  The Curse of Dimensionality calls for Dimensionality Reduction. Dimensionality reduction refers to the process of converting a set of data having vast dimensions into data with fewer dimensions while still making sure that it conveys similar information concisely.  Eigenvalues and eigenvectors are prominently used in the analysis of linear transformations.  Eigenvalues and eigenvectors are important concepts in linear algebra. In simple terms, an eigenvector of a matrix is a non-zero vector that, when multiplied by the matrix, results in a scalar multiple of itself. The scalar multiple is called the eigenvalue of that eigenvector.  More formally, let A be a square matrix of size n x n, and let λ be a scalar. A non-zero vector v is an eigenvector of A with eigenvalue λ if the following equation holds:  Av = λv  Here, the left-hand side is the product of the matrix A and the vector v, and the right-hand side is the scalar multiple of v by λ. Note that λ may be real or complex, and that there may be multiple eigenvectors with the same eigenvalue.  Singular value decomposition (SVD) is a powerful matrix factorization technique in linear algebra. It decomposes a matrix A into three matrices:  A = UΣV^T  where U and V are orthogonal matrices (i.e., their columns are orthonormal vectors), and Σ is a diagonal matrix whose entries are called the singular values of A.  The columns of U are the left singular vectors of A, and the columns of V are the right singular vectors of A. The singular values in Σ are ordered in decreasing magnitude.  PCA: PCA stands for Principal Component Analysis. It is a statistical technique used to reduce the dimensionality of a dataset while retaining most of the information contained in the data.  In PCA, the data is projected onto a lower-dimensional space while preserving the maximum possible amount of variance in the original data. This is done by identifying the principal components of the data, which are the directions in which the data varies the most.  The principal components are computed by finding the eigenvectors of the covariance matrix of the data. The eigenvectors represent the directions of maximum variance in the data, and the corresponding eigenvalues represent the amount of variance explained by each principal component.   Other dimensionality reduction techniques  Independent component analysis (ICA): Independent Component Analysis (ICA) is a computational technique used to separate a multivariate signal into independent, non-Gaussian components. It is a method for blind source separation, which means that it separates a signal into its original source components without any prior knowledge of the sources or their mixing process.  ICA assumes that the observed signal is a linear mixture of several independent source signals. The objective of ICA is to recover the original sources from the observed signal by finding a matrix that transforms the observed signal into a set of independent components.  Nonlinear dimensionality reduction technique:  Nonlinear dimensionality reduction techniques are methods used to reduce the dimensionality of high-dimensional data while preserving the underlying nonlinear structure of the data. Unlike linear dimensionality reduction techniques, which assume that the data is linearly correlated, nonlinear techniques can capture complex relationships between data points that cannot be captured by linear methods.  t-SNE is a Nonlinear dimensionality reduction technique used for visualizing high-dimensional data in a low-dimensional space. It works by creating a probability distribution over pairs of high- dimensional objects and a probability distribution over pairs of low-dimensional objects, and then minimizing the divergence between these distributions.  UMAP (Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection): UMAP is a relatively new nonlinear dimensionality reduction technique that has been shown to be highly effective for visualizing complex high-dimensional datasets. It is based on a topological framework and works by constructing a low-dimensional embedding that preserves the underlying manifold structure of the data.     