In this topic lecture we learn and practical practice about the advance concepts of clustering which includes data dimensionality, principal component analysis (PCA) , multiple implementation using PCA and t-SNE. data could be of different type it could be image, text data or geometric data. When we have to represent data, we need to do it in different dimensions. In the field of machine learning we face problem when we need to organise and analysis high dimensional space of data. We need to represent data in form of 1D , 2D and 3D. We also lean about the curse of dimensionality and how it can be handles and used in python. Representing data in 2D form could pretty much solves the issues of curse of dimensionality. Eigenvalues We also learned about the eigenvalues and eigenvectors. and eigenvectors are prominently used in the analysis of linear transformation. We learn the mathematical form of find the values to get the better understanding of the concept. Moving forward we learned about the singular value decomposition. SVD is a method of decomposing a the SVD is a matrix into three other matrices. factorisation of a real complex matrix. The SVD represents an expansion of the original data in a coordinate system where the covariance matrix is diagonal. Moving forward we also learned about the implementation of PCA and several ways of implementing PCA. We learn about ICA which stands for independent component analysis. ICA is a method os separating a multivariate signal into independent, non-gaussian components.  In linear algebra,  I have learned and polished my understanding on this topics of unit learning through multiple resources. i learned about PCA , ICA and nonlinear dimensionality reduction techniques from the resources of research papers provided by the deakin unit resources. To get better understanding of the implementation of these concepts into real time coding i watched my tutor’s lecture and also went through some online youtube videos. I also took help of Sklearn site and matplotlib to get the understanding and exact code of using build in libraries and functions.  