Module Learning Objectives –  I certify that I have successfully achieved the below-mentioned learning goals.    Solving the curse of dimensionality   Eigenvalues and eigenvectors   Principal component analysis  Implementing PCA in Python  Summary and reflection –  The  pages  below  contain  the  handwritten  summary  referring  to  the  given  learning resources. It includes all the important points of the topic 4 module.  This topic, we mainly focused on dimensionality in data and dimensionality reduction. First, we learnt what is dimensionality in data and how it affects it. Then we learnt about the curse of dimensionality and how to solve it step by step. Then we have introduced eigenvalues and eigenvectors and their role of them in dimensionality reduction techniques, how important they are  and ways  of  accompanying  them  in  reduction.  Then  we  learnt about  the  singular value  decomposition  and  preliminaries.  In  the  next  part  of  the  module,  we  learnt  in  steps how  to  formulate  PCA  and  derive  principal  components  and  moving  onwards,  we implemented PCA and also learnt about a real-world example of using it. At the end of the module, we were introduced to a few other dimensionality reduction techniques and used Python language to practise what we learnt in theory.  When  we  started  topic  4,  I  was  not  familiar  with  any  of  these  concepts  up  to  this  level.  I knew the definitions of dimensionality in data, dimensionality reduction and decomposition but  was  not  familiar  with  how  it  affects,  how  to  solve  it  or  different  methods  of dimensionality reduction or factors accompanying it. Other than that, I had the opportunity to explore real-world examples and learn more about this topic. And the practical part done with Python was  a  little bit  confusing  at first  but  was  able  to  understand  all  the  necessary commands  and  ways  of  implementation  by  referring  to  both  given  resources  and  online resources.   