Summary for the topic.  Dimensions in datasets for machine learning are either features or merely the dataset's columns. High dimensional data in a dataset can cause overfitting, higher computational complexity, and decreased algorithm efficiency. The technique of lowering the dimensions is known as a dataset can contain as many characteristics or variables while yet preserving as much data as feasible.  The  matrix  decomposition  technique  known  as  eigenvalue  decomposition,  or  eigen decomposition, divides a square matrix into a collection of eigenvectors and eigenvalues. The ways in which a linear transformation affects the data are represented by eigenvectors, whereas eigenvalues show how much each eigenvector has been stretched or compressed.  A  popular  machine  learning  method  for  dimensionality  reduction  is  principal  component analysis (PCA), which converts high-dimensional data into a lower-dimensional space while maintaining as much information as feasible.  Finding the principal components of the data—linear combinations of the initial attributes that reflect most of the variation in the data—is how PCA analyses data. The direction in the data that captures the largest variation is the first principal component; the direction orthogonal to the first principal component is the second principal component; and so forth.  The nonlinear dimensionality reduction method t-distributed stochastic neighbour embedding (t-SNE) is useful for embedding high-dimensional data for visualisation in a low-dimensional environment of two or three dimensions.  Reflection for the topic.  The challenges associated with training machine learning models because of high-dimensional data are referred to as the "curse of dimensionality." It usually has nothing to do with the longer computation  times  needed  for  datasets  with  a  lot  of  features. The  dimensionality  curse  can result in overfitting, more complicated computations, and trouble visualising the data. The PCA (principal  component analysis) dimensionality  reduction method is employed to  combat the dimensionality curse. PCA is required to minimise the number of features in high-dimensional data sets and to pinpoint the key characteristics that best account for data volatility. The PCA algorithm's steps include determining the covariance matrix's eigenvectors and eigenvalues as well as sorting the eigenvalues to retain the most significant ones.  