Main points summary  -  Measuring distances. Measuring distance between two data points, xi and yi , is a  fundamental part of many machine learning algorithms. For example, in K- Nearest-Neighbour distance is measured to find the nearest neighbour and classify the data to the class label of this neighbour. Examples of distance measurements are:  o  Euclidian distance o  Cosine distance o  Mahalanobis distance o  Cityblock/Manhattan distance o  Minkowski distance o  Jaccard distance  -  Clustering and its applications. Clustering is to partition data points into different clusters/groups, with other similar data points. It works in both unsupervised and supervised learning, but is particularly used in unsupervised learning. The goal when doing clustering is to minimise the so-called intra-distance, which is the distance between points in the same cluster, and at the same time maximizing inter-distance, which is the distance between points from different clusters. o  K-means is a popular clustering algorithm. It is a simple and fast  algorithms, but it also has many limitations. For example, the number of clusters need to be supplied beforehand. However, The Elbow Method is a method that can be used for finding the appropriate number of clusters. Another drawback with K-means is that it has random initialisation, which means that the method may output different clustering solutions each time. To avoid this, Kmeans++ initialisation algorithm can be used to initialise better. K-means++ works by starting with allocating one cluster centre randomly and then searches for other centres given the first one. -  Evaluation of Clustering. There are two main categories of evaluation methods  for clustering: External assessment, where the clustering is compared to a known clustering (often called Ground truth or Gold standard) and Internal assessment, where it is determined whether the clustering follows certain intrinsic assumptions. Examples of evaluation methods are:  o  Rand index. o  Purity o  Mutual information o  Silhouette coefficient  -  K-means clustering with Python.  