1)In this topic we have been introduced to two unsupervised learning which we would discuss in our next two topics which are clustering and dimensionality reduction . In this topic we have been discussed about clustering and its applications. 2)Clustering is defined as algorithm which is an unsupervised approach in which the input is not labelled and the solution to a problem is determined by the algorithm's expertise from a set of practise problems. 3)K means is defined as each data point is assigned to a group iteratively, and over time, data points are grouped according to shared characteristics. To determine which, group each data point should belong to, the goal is to reduce the sum of distances between the data points and the cluster centroid. It would repeat the important steps which are assigning data points on based on centroid and choosing centroids based on data points to the cluster. 4)All the algorithms which are related to machine learning needs to get evaluated and can be evaluated in two different categories which are Internal assessment(this one is based on the assumptions) and External assessment (comparing a cluster to a cluster which clusters algorithm is already evaluated ) 5)Then we discussed about rand index which is defined as the measurement between the two clusters and adjusted rand index is the corrected version of the rand index. Purity is a metric for how much of a single class a cluster contains. You may think about its computation as follows: Count the amount of data points from the class that makes up that cluster's majority for each cluster. Now divide the total number of data points by the sum of all clusters. 6) The silhouette coefficient is a statistic used to assess how effective a clustering method is. Its value is between -1 and 1. Meaning clusters are obviously distinct from one another and spaced widely apart. 7)We have discussed about the limitations of k means , which are it cannot find the clusters which are in arbitrary shapes and cannot detect noisy data points etc. 8)Then we have been introduced to kmeans++ which is defined as algorithm which takes kmeans cluster centre values. 9)Then discussed some other clustering algorithms such as hierarchical, DBSCAN and shape-based clustering. hierarchical clustering has predetermined values and there are 2 different types of hierarchical clustering which are agglomerative and divisive clustering. 