TOPIC 3: CLUSTERING  ● Clustering is a form of unsupervised learning that can find patterns in large data sets when the data is not labelled and dimensionality reduction helps us when the number of features, that describe the difference between data, becomes too large to manage.  ● Distance metrics are used in both supervised and unsupervised  learning, generally to calculate similarity between points.  ● The types of distance measurements includes Euclidean distance- it is the length of a segment connecting two points, Mahalanobis distance- it is the distance between two points in multivariate space, Manhattan distance- it calculates the distance between two vectors, Minkowski distance- it can be used in a space where distance can be represented as a vector that has a length, Jaccard distance- it is a metric used to calculate the similarity and diversity of sample set.  ● Understanding how to calculate the distance measurements.  ● Clustering algorithm is the grouping of data sets.  ● The difference between intra-distance and inter- distance.  ● Understanding how Kmeans works as it tries to group similar kinds of items in  form of clusters.  ● Evaluation metrics for clustering Algorithms consists of two types, extrinsic measures such as Rand index, mutual information, v-measure that require ground truth labels and intrinsic measures such as silhouette coefficient, calinski-harabasz index that does not require ground truth labels.  ● Rand index measures the similarity between the cluster assignment, Mutual information measures the agreement between the cluster assignments, silhouette coefficient measure the between-cluster distance against within- cluster distance.  ● Understanding limitation of kmeans.  ● Kmeans with kmeans++ comes under unsupervised learning. ● There are other clustering algorithms such as Hierarchical clustering,  DBSCAN (density based), Shape-based Clustering.  ● How to perform Kmeans clustering using python, running different codes, ● Installing various libraries such as pandas- for loading data frame, matplotlib-  for data visualization, scikit-learn to use the kmean algorithms.  ● Importing libraries and loading data, exploring data, data transformation. ● Creating Kmeans model, visualizing the clusters  