Topic 3 Summary  1.1  Dimensions A feature or attribute or characteristic that distinguishes something from another.  1.2  Clustering Find patterns in large datasets when the data is not labelled.  1.3  Dimensionality reduction For  those  where  the  number  of  features  describing  the  differences  between  data  is  too  large making it difficult to manage.  1.4  Distance metrics Distance is the value of the function defining the distance between any two data instances and can be used to measure the degree of similarity of the instances. Any instance is zero distance from itself。 If the distance between instances A and B is non-negative and symmetric, then the distance from instance A to B is equal to the distance from B to A. The  distance  between  instances  satisfies  the  triangle  inequality  i.e.  the  sum  of  the  two  sides  is greater than the third side Distance measures satisfying above 3 properties are also known as Distance Metrics.  1.5  Example of different distance metrics Practical applications for various distance measurements are presented in 3.3  1.6  Clustering and its applications By  grouping  data  points  together,  groups  are  created  based  on  similarities  and  differences  in features  or  dimensions  in  material  that  lacks  known  targets.  It  applies  to  both  supervised  and unsupervised learning. The clustering algorithm needs to minimize the distance between points in the same cluster and maximize the distance between points in different clusters.  1.7  Kmeans K is the centroid of the cluster and is used to define the center of mass of the cluster. The algorithm assigns data points to clusters based on the current center of mass, and then selects new centers of mass based on the data points assigned to clusters.  1.8  Evaluation of clustering Clustering  can  be  evaluated  by  comparing  cluster  performance  with  known  clusters  (external assessment)  and  determining  whether  clusters  follow  certain  intrinsic  assumptions  (internal assessment).  1.9  Limitations of Kmeans Random initialization means that you may get different clusters each time. Number of clusters must be provided in advance. Groups of arbitrary shape cannot be found. Inability to identify noisy data points that should not be considered in cluster analysis.  1.10 Kmeans++ Kmeans++  is  an  algorithm  for  choosing  the  initial  cluster’s  centre  values  or  centroids  for  the Kmeans clustering algorithm. It gets closer to (and not further away from) the best solution.  1.11 Other clustering algorithms Kmeans is one of the most popular clustering methods in machine learning but it is not the only clustering algorithm. The DBSCAN algorithm is highlighted in this topic's assignment.  1.12   Implementation of Kmeans and DBSCAN algorithms using python  