 Measuring distances - The algorithms used in machine learning frequently use distance measurements. Distance measurements are functions that specify the separation between any two instances of data. These are some different types of distance measurements.    Euclidean distance   Cosine distance   Mahalanobis distance   Cityblock/Manhattan distance   Minkowski distance  Jaccard distance  Clustering and its applications - Clustering, often known as cluster analysis, is a machine learning activity that is unsupervised. It includes finding natural grouping in data automatically. In this unit we learn about K-means clustering algorithm.  Evaluation of clustering – In this topic we learn about cluster evaluation methods. To make sure that the clustering is accurate and beneficial, it is crucial to assess its quality. Here are some common methods for evaluating clustering.    External assessment  Internal assessment  Limitations of K-means - K-means has been extensively studied and used, however it also has several drawbacks, some of the are.    Sensitivity to initialization   Can’t determining the number of clusters.    Unable to capture non-linear cluster boundaries.  It’s sensitive to outliers.  Clustering with Kmeans++ - K-means is an unsupervised learning method for clustering data points. The algorithm iteratively divides data points into K clusters by minimizing the variance in each cluster. (W3 Schools, n.d.)  Also, we learn about    Hierarchical clustering - In a hierarchical clustering process, clusters are built with a  certain top-to-bottom ordering. For instance, the hierarchy of files and folders on the hard drive. Divisive and agglomerative hierarchical clustering are the two forms. (Sayad, 2022)    DBSCAN - Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise is used to find clusters of random shapes in a dataset. The algorithm divides the data space into high- density areas and separates them from low-density areas. It is particularly useful for datasets with noise and outliers.    Shape-based clustering - Data points can be grouped using shape-based clustering algorithms according to their geometric structure or shape. In order to discover the underlying clustering structure of the data and give clustering algorithms a solid place to start, visualisation approaches like VAT and iVAT can be used. When dealing with datasets that contain items with complicated shapes or patterns, these strategies might be quite helpful.  