For topic 3 and 4, we would explore the first type of machine learning: unsupervised learning which has 2 forms: clustering and dimensionality reduction.  Firstly, let’s review some mathematics concepts: distance measurements to find the similarity between data points. There are a few methods to find the distances: -  Euclidean distance:  -  Cosine distance:  -  Mahalanobis distance:  -  Cityblock/Manhattan distance:  -  Minkowski distance:  - Jaccard distance:  Clustering in machine learning means that there is a group of unlabeled data and the task is to classified those data into groups. In order to do that, we would use one of those distance measurements and perform those 2 functions: minimize intra-distance (points in the same cluster) and maximize inter-distance (points from different clusters).  Kmeans: we start with random centroid points and calculate the distances from each point of dataset to the centroids. If the distance of each point closer to a centroid, we would classify it to that cluster. We would proceed the function until the centroids are stable.  There are some methods to evaluate the clustering such as:  -  Rand index: measure the similarity between 2 clusters  -  Purity: measure the quality and accuracy of clustering method  -  Mutual information: measure the agreement of two clustering assignments  -  Silhouette coefficient: measure the similarity of an object to its own cluster without  a ground truth  Limitations of Kmeans:  -  Have to choose the number of clusters at the beginning -  Random initial centroids -  Cannot detect noise  Methods to find the numbers of clusters:  -  Elbow method:  Select the point where it does not change much comparing to other points.  -  Silhouette score: find the cluster which has the highest score.  Other clustering methods:  -  KMeans++: a better version of KMeans which improves in the initialization of the  starting centroids. -  Hierarchical clustering -  DBSCAN(density based) -  Shape-based clustering  The rest of this topic lecture is Python hands-on with KMeans clustering.  