2 Topic 3 provided a solid synopsis and refresher on the methods of clustering and the various means of doing  so  such  as  Kmeans,  DBscan  etc.  I  found  this  topics  content  in  relation  to  the  python implementation and examples light on for what I needed to do to complete my pass task.  The most critical aspect I have discerned from the methodology of clustering is the inter-relationship with distances between centroids of clusters and the data points themselves. This in combination with loop structures and moving centroids allows for increased accuracy (for kmeans). But similar logic does apply to other cluster methodology such as Dbscan as well when it comes to setting the eps and minimum values to increase the performance measure of the clusters. i.e points are closer to the centroid of a cluster then the centroid of another etc.  I found an excellent resource at https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2019/08/comprehensive-guide-k- means-clustering/ which had similar content to the unit content, but using different terminology helped consolidate the outcomes expected from the unit learning.  Further I had to do research into DBscan to help formulate an approach into an estimation technique for eps and min_samples as this was not covered in the unit material.  However I found that sklearn website to be extremely helpful in supplementing information, syntax for clustering applications for all varieties of clustering whether it be k-means, DBscan or hierarchal.  Link for DBscan information for future reference:  https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cluster.DBSCAN.html  Ultimately  I  think  I  will  need  to  conduct  further  supplementary  research  in  coming  topics  to  further underpin  my  understanding  of  clustering  methodologies  and  in  particular  evaluating  it’s  performance. Some methods appear to be quite clear, such as how purity measures from an external view, and how to  evaluate  different  aspects  of  silhouette  plots.  But  extracting  useful  information  from  kmeans performance classification reports in python is still 100% clear. But from my perspective, the Silhouette Coefficient and Purity metrics will still permit a strong performance measure on kmeans clustering results.  