This topic, the Machine Learning unit covered one form of unsupervised machine learning, which is clustering and used Python to apply it on practical example.  -  Clustering in general is the operation of grouping unlabelled data with the objective of having the data entries within a cluster share a common pattern or similarities in general than data entries outside the cluster. To create the clusters, similarity between the data entries is measured. This is done through distance metrics that reflects the distances between the data entries. Depending on the data type, the appropriate metric is used.  -  -  -  -  K-means  is  the  most  popular  clustering  method.  In  this  method  k  points  are  assigned  as centroids for k clusters. Then, the distances between the data entries and the centroids are measured  and  each  entry  point  is  assigned  to  the  cluster  with  the  shortest  distance.  The method repeats the tasks of assigning data entries to clusters using the current centroids and generating new centroids based on the current cluster assignment until a convergence occurs. To evaluate the resultant clustering, we can either do an external assessment in which we compare the clustering performance to the actual correct clustering if its available or do an internal  assessment  in  which  a  certain  factor  such  as  cluster  size  and  distances  between clusters are measured and evaluated. Some  limitation  of  the  k-means  method  originates  from  the  random  initialization  of  the centroids, which means different trials could lead to different results. K-means method also needs the number of clusters beforehand and cannot detect noisy data. K-means++ is a modified version of K-means only choose the first centroid randomly. The rest of  the  centroids  and  uses  the  first  centroid  to  generate  the  rest  of  the  centroids  through probability. Hierarchical clustering is another clustering method, which produces a predefined number of clusters and has two types, either bottom up or top down. In down up type each entry starts as a cluster, then, entries with shorted distances are merged into a bigger cluster. This process is repeated until all the entries are merged into one cluster. The up down type works in an opposite manner in such it starts with a one encompassing cluster and starts to split down with each step.  -  -  -  Another  cluster  method  is  DBSCAN,  which  is  short  for  Density-Based  Spatial  Clustering  of Applications  with  Noise.  In  this  method,  the  clusters  are  generated  by  providing  two parameters,  radius  and  minimum  number  of  points.  In  this  method,  a  random  point  is chosen, ,then, if there are minimum amount of points within the given radius, the points are added to that point’s cluster. Boundaries of that cluster are points within the radius but are less than the minimum number given. After reaching the boundaries, another random point is chosen and new cluster is made. Any point left after this process is considered noise.   