In Topic 3, we learnt more about unsupervised learning and its types and practical applications with real world problems. Unsupervised Learning is a type of machine learning, where the algorithm is given unlabelled or image-based data to perform a specific task such as image recognition, text recognition from a huge dataset and so on. The basic objective of unsupervised learning is to discover the underlying structure of data , such as clusters or groups which will then be used to gain insights or find patterns in the data. Unsupervised learning can be used for various task such as dimensionality reduction, data visualization and outlier detection. Highly used Clustering algorithms are k-means, k-means ++ ,etc. which are used to find clusters in the dataset based on similarity of the datapoints. PCA and T-SNE are used to reduce the dimensionality of the dataset by using Eigen vectors and identifying important features from the dataset. Autoencoders and Singular Value Decomposition(SVD) which are highly used in fields such as image processing, natural language processing and recommendation systems. It is also used to reduce dimensions, noise reduction and matrix approximation.  We also learnt about Limitation of K-means and why we need to use K-means ++.  Limitation of K-means are as follows –    K-means is extremely sensitive to cluster centre initializations.   Bad initialization can lead to Poor convergence speed.   Bad initialization can lead to bad overall clustering.   Random initialization means each time we get different clusters.   We need to specify how many clusters are we using beforehand.   Noise is not detected because of which it is difficult to understand the difference between the outliers  and important datapoints.  To overcome this issue, we use K-means ++ where we can choose centroid and select the start point of the cluster. This helps to minimize the cost and time of finding the clusters appropriate to the dataset rather than recomputing clusters in k-means algorithm.  THERE ARE OTHER CLUSTERING ALGORITHMS SUCH AS : -  1.  CURE (Clustering Using Representatives) 2.  BIRCH( Balanced Iterative Reducing Clustering and using Hierarchies) 3.  DBSCAN (Density-based Spatial Clustering of Application with Noise) 4.  OPTICS (Ordering Points to Identify Clustering Structure) 5.  STING (Statistical Information Grid) 6.  Wave cluster 7.  MCLUST (Model-based Clustering) 8.  GMM (Gaussian Mixture Models)  