Topic 9 summary  This topic covered nonlinear models including boosting and random forest, by exploring decision trees which map possible outcomes of a series of related options and harnessing the collective knowledge of a diverse and independent body of decision makers. Lastly, the implementation of decision trees and random forest using the ‘sklearn’ library.  Ensemble learning is the process by which multiple models, such as classifiers or experts, are strategically generated and combined to solve a particular computation intelligence problem. To reduce the variance of unstable (high variance) learning methods such as decision trees, we can train multiple decision trees, each with slightly different subsets of data. Then when doing classification/regression you take their combined decisions (via averaging for regression or voting for classification). This is called the ensemble method. A bootstrap sample is a smaller sample that is generated (bootstrapped) from a larger sample. It uses a resampling method found in statistics. AdaBoost, which stands for Adaptive Boosting, is a machine-learning algorithm for classification problems. It works by combining weak classifiers to create a strong classifier. In contrast to using just one classifier, bagging uses multiple classifiers trained on different under- sampled subsets and then allows these classifiers to vote on a final decision. Bootstrap aggregation or bagging (B+agg), is a general-purpose procedure for reducing the variance of statistical learning methods. Based on the bagging decision tree idea, we can define a new method called a random forest.  The random forest classifier creates a set of decision trees from randomly selected subsets of the training dataset. It then aggregates the votes from different decision trees to decide the final class of the test objects. The difference between the random forest algorithm and the decision tree algorithm is that in the random forest algorithm, the processes of finding the root node and splitting the feature nodes will run randomly.     