  Ensemble learning is a general meta approach to machine learning that seeks better predictive performance by combining the predictions from multiple models. The three main classes of ensemble learning methods are bagging, stacking, and boosting, and it is important to both have a detailed understanding of each method and to consider them on your predictive modeling project.    Bagging involves fitting many decision trees on different samples of the same dataset  and averaging the predictions.    Stacking involves fitting many different models types on the same data and using  another model to learn how to best combine the predictions.    Boosting involves adding ensemble members sequentially that correct the predictions  made by prior models and outputs a weighted average of the predictions.  Boosting is a class of ensemble machine learning algorithms that involve combining the predictions from many weak learners. The AdaBoost algorithm involves using very short (one-level) decision trees as weak learners that are added sequentially to the ensemble. Each subsequent model attempts to correct the predictions made by the model before it in the sequence. This is achieved by weighing the training dataset to put more focus on training examples on which prior models made prediction errors.  A Random Forest Algorithm is a supervised machine learning algorithm that is extremely popular and is used for Classification and Regression problems in Machine Learning. We know that a forest comprises numerous trees, and the more trees more it will be robust. Similarly, the greater the number of trees in a Random Forest Algorithm, the higher its accuracy and problem-solving ability.  Random Forest is a classifier that contains several decision trees on various subsets of the given dataset and takes the average to improve the predictive accuracy of that dataset. It is based on the concept of ensemble learning which is a process of combining multiple classifiers to solve a complex problem and improve the performance of the model.  