Ensemble learning  On some datasets, the classifier you created may be unreliable and erroneous. You may have created a large number of classifiers, but some of them may be erroneous while others may work better in certain situations. It's possible that during your own machine learning experiments, you encountered this phenomena. A specific computational intelligence problem is solved via ensemble learning, which is the act of systematically creating and combining many models, such as classifiers or experts.  Bootstrap estimation  A statistical method known as bootstrapping involves averaging estimates from numerous small data samples to estimate values about a population. It is a resampling technique that replicates the sampling procedure by using random sample with replacement. This makes it possible to incorporate an observation in a small sample more than once. Bootstrap estimation provides for the estimation of the sampling distribution of nearly any statistic using random sampling techniques and assigns measures of accuracy (bias, variance, confidence intervals, prediction error, etc.) to sample estimates.  AdaBoost  An algorithm for statistically classifying data is called AdaBoost, or Adaptive Boosting. It is an ensemble learning technique that can boost performance when combined with a variety of other learning methods. Multiple weak learners' outputs are combined by AdaBoost into a weighted sum that represents the boosted classifier's final output. It is adaptive in that cases that were incorrectly identified by earlier classifiers are given preference by weaker learners who come after them.  Bagging  Bagging (Bootstrap Aggregating) is a technique for ensemble learning that enhances the efficiency and precision of machine learning algorithms. It lowers a prediction model's variance and is employed to handle bias-variance trade-offs. For both regression and classification models, specifically for decision tree methods, bagging prevents overfitting of the data. In bagging, a random sample of data from a training set is picked with replacement, which allows for multiple selections of the individual data points. These weak models are then trained independently based on the type of task (regression or classification), following the generation of many data samples.  Also as you can see in the figure below, one could either choose to classify with 1 tree (the red original tree in top left) or 11 trees based on the dataset. Usually it’s more powerful to use bagging decision trees so that you can utilize as much information as possible.  Random Forest  Random Forest is a flexible, user-friendly machine learning technique that achieves excellent results even without hyper-parameter adjustment. Due to its versatility (it can be used for both classification and regression problems), it is one of the most widely used algorithms. An ensemble of decision trees is built using the supervised learning algorithm Random Forest, which is often trained using the bagging approach. The bagging method's general tenet is that combining learning models improves the end outcome. To produce a single outcome, Random Forest aggregates the results of various decision trees. Random Forest decreases the variance of the regression predictors compared to a single tree while maintaining the same bias by introducing additional randomness to the model while growing the trees.    