Can you explain why ensemble models have a lower variance compared to other models? Share your thoughts.  Ensemble models typically have lower variance because they use a combination of multiple models. This allows for a much more balanced prediction which is quite a lot more accurate. The reason for the lower variance is due to the reduction of a single model use which alleviates a single model’s error and any biases it may have. The combined use of ensemble model allows for the combination of all advantages from each of the different models which make the process much smoother.  Bootstrap estimation  Bootstrapping estimation is a resampling method which involves resampling the original dataset to generate multiple new datasets. All these sets are the same size as the original. It is used to estimate a model accuracy, when resampling the training data, multiple training sets can be evaluated for each model. This can reduce overfitting and provide a much more accurate rendition of the model.  AdaBoost  Adaboost is a learning model used for classification problems, and involves using weak classifiers to generate a strong classifier. The algorithm works by taking the dataset input as features(X), a vector of corresponding (y) labels and a number of (T) iterations being the weak classifiers to train. Once the weights are initialized, each iteration the weak classifier is trained then given a weight from evaluation. The weights of misclassified samples are increased, and the weights of correctly classified samples are decreased. The final output is a strong learner that classifies the input vector, which is a weighted sum of the weak learners.  Bagging  Bagging is a method that employs multiple classifiers trained on different under-sampled subsets to decrease the variance of statistical learning approaches. The technique is referred to as bootstrap aggregation, and it can significantly reduce the variance of the average of independent estimates. Bagging decision trees are often more effective than single decision trees since they can make use of more data. By combining the choices of independent classifiers, bagging can improve the final decision boundary.  9.6 Random forest algorithm  Random forest is a technique that is based on the bagging decision tree approach. It creates multiple decision trees from random subsets of the training dataset, and the selection of the root node and feature node splitting are randomized. Each tree is built from a bootstrap sample of data, and node splits are calculated from random feature subsets to ensure independence between the trees. The number of trees and features are the two parameters in random forest, and the error rate depends on the correlation between trees and the strength of single trees. The more features used, the stronger the single trees, but also the higher the correlation among the trees. Thus, there is a trade-off between these two factors. 