 Ensemble learning is the process by which multiple models, such as classifiers or experts, are strategically generated and combined to solve a particular computational intelligence problem.   Ensemble methods reduce variance in models with high variance like decisions trees by training multiple decision trees, each with slightly different subsets of data. Then when doing classification or regression the decisions of all the trees are combined.   Random forest is the most common of ensemble method.    A bootstrap sample is a smaller sample that is “bootstrapped” from a larger sample. Bootstrapping is a type of resampling where large numbers of smaller samples of the same size are repeatedly drawn, with replacement, from a single original sample.    The key idea behind bootstrap sampling is to create new samples by resampling from the original sample. Resampling means randomly selecting data points from the original sample, with replacement. "With replacement" means that each data point selected is put back into the original sample before the next selection, allowing the possibility of selecting the same data point more than once.    AdaBoost, which stands for Adaptive Boosting, is a machine-learning algorithm for classification problems. It works by combining weak classifiers to create a strong classifier.    A single classifier may not be able to accurately predict the class of an object, but when we group multiple weak classifiers with each one progressively learning from the others' wrongly classified objects, we can build one such strong model.    The AdaBoost process is to:    Start by training a weak classifier on the data. A weak classifier is one that performs better than random guessing, but still performs poorly at designating classes to objects.    Each data point in the original dataset is initially assigned an equal weight. The weak learner is trained on this weighted dataset, and it makes predictions on the entire dataset.    After the weak learner's performance is evaluated, AdaBoost assigns higher weights to the misclassified data points, making them more important in the subsequent training iterations.    AdaBoost repeats the process of training weak learners and updating weights iteratively. In each iteration, a new weak learner is trained on the weighted dataset, and the weights of the misclassified data points are adjusted. The weak learners are added sequentially to the ensemble.    Once all the weak learners are trained, they are combined into a strong learner through a weighted voting scheme. Each weak learner is assigned a weight based on its performance during training.    The strong learner produced by AdaBoost is a weighted combination of the weak learners' predictions. It assigns higher weights to the more accurate weak learners and lower weights to the weaker ones.    Bootstrap aggregation or bagging, is a general-purpose procedure for reducing the variance of a statistical learning methods. Bagging uses multiple classifiers trained on different under- sampled subsets and then allows these classifiers to vote on a final decision instead of using just one classifier.    Random Forest is an ensemble learning algorithm that combines the predictions of multiple decision trees to make more accurate predictions and can be used for both classification and regression problems.    Random forest builds on the idea of bagging. Each tree is built from a bootstrap sample of data. Node splits are calculated from random feature subsets to make sure each of the trees is as independent as possible. Then we randomly pull out a subset and try to work with the subset. Whenever it needs to split from the tree, based on the best feature, we choose the best feature from the subset. Ultimately you do these steps T times, where T is the number of the trees.    The OOB error is a metric that quantifies the performance of the Random Forest model using the data points not included in the training set for a particular tree (out-of-bag data points).    Feature importance is a measure of the contribution of each feature in the Random Forest model's decision-making process. It quantifies the relative importance of different features in predicting the target variable. Feature importance can provide insights into which features have the most impact on the model's overall performance.    Advantages of random forest include:    Strong predictive accuracy o  Reduced overfitting from averaging multiple trees o  Can handle large datasets o  A measure of feature of important is considered o  Can handle non linear relationships    Disadvantages of random forest include:    Hard to interpret because it’s an ensemble of decision trees and hard to know the exact reasoning behind predictions o  Can be computationally expensive o  Uses a lot of memory o  Can be biased toward features with more levels or categories o  Can struggle with extrapolation beyond the training data    The significance of each feature in the input dataset can also be determined using Random Forest. The significance of each feature is assessed based on how much it reduces impurity. The higher the contribution, the more important the feature is. 