 1.  Ensemble learning  To overcome weakness and inaccuracy, the strategy of ensemble learning is used. The main  idea  behind  this  is  to  use  multiple  models  strategically  and  bring  in  a  collective performance resulting in better accuracy.  A non-parametric supervised learning technique called a decision tree is used to perform classification  and  regression  problems.  It  is  organized  hierarchically,  with  a  root  node, branches, internal nodes, and leaf nodes.  The idea of combining multiple decision  trees with learning different patterns can give better performance metrics.  Random forest is a popular ensemble method.  2.  Use and importance of hyper parameters.  Hyperparameters are used to improve or impact performance, in a positive way. In case of the  random forest ensemble  model, hyper  parameters  can  be used  to  optimize  the model’s performance. The idea is to obtain the best combination of the hyperparameters that can do this. And by experimentation, it is possible to obtain the best performance metrics (Accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score.  Hyperparameters can also be used as a solution to address overfitting and underfitting of the data. Other factors include the robustness and computational complexity. The specific hyper parameters used in the code are as follows:  n_estimators: To find the optimal value, an array can be passed and find the right fit that gives  the  best  performance.  Things  to  keep  in  mind  with  the  number  of  decision  tree estimators is that, more the number of estimators better is the performance but also it increases the complexity of computation.  max_depth: This hyperparameter determines the maximum depth of each decision tree in the random forest. This is to limit the number of levels for a tree. To avoid the risk of overfitting, an optimal value of max_depth should be used, that also is able to learn more complex patterns in the data  min_samples_split:  It  stands  for  the  bare  minimum  number  of  samples  necessary  to separate an internal node during decision tree development.  min_samples_leaf: The minimal amount of samples that must be present at a leaf node is specified by this hyperparameter. Higher values of min_samples_leaf can regularise the model and avoid overfitting by shrinking the tree leaves  Reflection on the knowledge gained.  Machine  learning  ensemble  approaches  combine  numerous  separate  models  to  provide predictions that are more accurate than those made by any one model alone. These techniques seek  to  maximize  the  benefits  of  many  models  while  minimizing  their  drawbacks,  leading  to greater  performance.  Gradient  Boosting  and  Random  Forest  are  two  well-liked  ensemble techniques. Gradient Boosting and Random Forest are both strong ensemble techniques that can handle  challenging  datasets  and  capture  nuanced  connections.  The decision  between  them  is influenced by the situation at hand, the data's properties, and the available processing power. In order to balance model complexity, generalization, and computing economy, the performance of ensemble techniques must be optimized, and hyperparameter tweaking is crucial for this.  