Main points of this module:    Ensemble learning is a process used by classifiers, experts, or other models as to strategically  generate and combine to solve computational intelligence problems.    An example of ensemble learning is training multiple decision trees, each with slightly  different subsets of data, to reduce variance.    A bootstrap sample is a smaller generated sample from a larger sample.   AdaBoost, or adaptive boosting, is an algorithm for classification problems in machine  learning, which combines weak classifiers to form a strong classifier.    Bagging utilises multiple classifiers trained on different under-sampled subsets, then allows  each to vote on a final decision.    The random forest algorithm, which is based on bagging, creates a set of decision trees of subsets which are selected at random, then it aggregates the votes from different trees to decide on the final class.    The ‘goodness’ of a bagged model can be estimated, and therefore, the out of bag error is  equivalent to the validation or test data.    Advantages of a random forest is that it is fast to build/predict, fully parallelisable, able to handle data without pre-processing, data does not require rescaling, transformation, or modification, it automatically handles missing values.    A disadvantage of a random forest is that the results are less interpretable than a single  decision tree.    Feature importance of using a random forest refers to the significance of each feature in the  input dataset based on how much it can reduce impurity in the decision trees.    A voting classifier is an ensemble learning technique which combines predictions of separate  classifiers to provide a final prediction.    A stack classifier is an ensemble learning technique that aggregates the predictions with  layers, the first consisting of predictions based on input data, the second then integrates the previous layer predictions to arrive at a final prediction.  Provide a summary of your reading list:  I just followed the given study material (9.1 – 9.12), reading everything until I understood it confidently, as well as viewing any linked videos provided. This topic I found the problem-solving activity to be quite challenging in comparison with the past couple topics. Ensemble learning was a new concept for me and took some time to get a grasp of it, practically speaking.   