The first topic is an introduction to what I will study over the course of this trimester, kick starting with modern application of machine learning and its types (supervised, unsupervised and reinforced). A basic roadmap of the steps involved: data collection; data preprocessing; training/ model building; performance evaluation and finally improvement.  In  supervised  learning  we  covered  concepts  like  using  major  part  of  dataset  for  training  and  the remaining part for testing and evaluating performance metrics and another crucial concept covered is cross-validation  whereas  in  unsupervised  learning  clustering  of  datasets  is  covered.  The  basic mathematical skills required like vectors, matrices, etc.  Reading list The reading list for topic 1 covers an introduction to what exactly ML is and how is solves modern-day problems. The starting modules tells information regarding unit guide and teaching staff.  From  1.3  to  1.5  essential  concepts,  definition  and  real-world  applications  are  covered.  Then  a description of all steps involved in machine learning. In types of ML algorithms, it is covered that in supervised  we  have  a  dataset  with  results  that  we  use  to  check  prediction  accuracy  while  in unsupervised  we  have  to  cluster  data  and  then  we  test  for  evaluation  metrics.  Another  type introduced is reinforced ML where learning is done via studying interactions with environment.  After this, we study the mathematics associated with ML, majorly vectors and matrices and additional concepts based on these topics like matric algebra, types of vector distances, etc. Then a guide for installing python on PC is covered. Once setup is complete an introductory learning for python is given.  The libraries introduced are numpy, pandas and matplotlib which will be discussed in future topics. For topic 1 emphasis is on numpy alone so that I can become familiar with its usage and implement matrix and vector operations using this library.  