Module Learning Objectives I certify that I achieved the following learning objectives for the module:  1.  Discover real world applications of machine learning. 2.  Explore the different elements and types of machine learning algorithms. 3.  Review the basic concepts and skills necessary to understand building blocks of machine  learning algorithms.  Summarising the content: Algorithm – A list or set of instructions to complete a specific task. Machine Learning – computers systems that are able to learn and adapt without following explicit instructions.  Real-World applications of Machine Learning include:  ▪  Robotics ▪  Computer Vision ▪  Board Games ▪  Facial/Voice Recognition ▪  Analytics and predictive modelling.  Machine Learning steps:  1.  Data Manipulation  a.  Data Acquisition – process of sampling information that illustrates the real world  physical conditions with a predefined measurement.  b.  Data Storage – data that is accessible to and can be manipulated by a computer. c.  Data Cleaning – removing poor quality data that may be affected by noise,  redundancy or missing values.  2.  Analytics  a.  Finding relationships and correlations – identifying key links within a dataset where  values may be shared or contribute to the value of another element.  b.  Exploratory Data analysis – analysing datasets in order to summarise their main  characteristics or features.  c.  Predictive Machine learning – uses statistical techniques for predictive modelling.  3.  Evaluation and Visualisation – evaluation of performance of the machine learning system.  Supervised Learning – the learning of a function or model from data to relate inputs to a known set of outputs. It is possible to train an algorithm using already known relationships in the dataset. In supervised learning, the training requires dividing the data into training data and evaluation data. The training data consists of the known relationships that are used to train the model. The evaluation data is used to test and evaluate the model with fresh, unused input data.  Machine algorithms are described mathematically, as a method of translating questions into formula and algorithms that can be understood and processed by a computer.  Types of Supervised Learning: Classification problems – determining decision boundaries to divide a data set according to the trained algorithm.  Regression problems – an examination of the relationship between response variable and one or more predictor variables.  Unsupervised Learning – a method of learning from unlabelled data, where the relationships are not known. The  method  aims  to  train  an  algorithm  to  learn  from  a  very  large  data  set  without  additional information about the data being provided. This method allows the model to learn the patterns and relationships to make sense of the data and to make decisions or predictions.  Types of Unsupervised Learning: Clustering -  a process of grouping similar points together to find the relative similarities in the data points.  Reinforcement Learning – a method where the algorithm is trained in the form of an agent learning how to behave in an environment by performing actions and learning from interactions with the environment. The agent is rewarded for actions that lead to the desired behaviour which replicates the way humans learn by instinct curiosity and experimentation.  Over-fitting – occurs when a model or function is too closely aligned to a limited set of data points. In which case the model can perform well with the trained data set, but may have poor performance or be unreliable in new data.  Reflecting on the content: What is the most important thing you learnt in this module? How does this relate to what you already know? The  content  in  this  module  provided  a  solid  refresher  for  the  fundamentals  of  machine  learning, vectors and matrices, along with the basics of python. As I have previously had some rudimentary experience  in  these  areas  I  found  the  content  in  this  topic  relatively  simple  and  easy  to  follow. Regardless  it  was  beneficial  to  review  this  knowledge  and  practice  the  skills  in  the  activities  in preparation for the topics to come.  Why do you think your course team wants you to learn the content of this module? This  topic  covered  some  key  fundamental  components  of  machine  learning.  This  is  important  to understand the different types of machine learning algorithms and how they can be applied in real world  applications.  Additionally,  it  was  important  to  cover  the  basics  of  Python  programming  to understand the building blocks of machine learning algorithms.  Evidence of Learning Evidence of learning can be found in the attached Jupyter Notebook file containing the code and solutions from activity 1.28.  Evidence of Self-assessment, with a sufficient score (at least 90%) 