Machine learning is the ability of a machine to identify patterns within variables of a dataset to perform set activities. The machine has the capability to adapt and perform these actions to produce satisfactory results. For a machine to perform a certain task, it requires data, i.e., input, which is then processed by the machine. The task is then performed, which would result in more data. The output it produces may or may not be satisfactory. To ensure an improvement in the accuracy and capability of the machine to produce satisfactory results, the output data is fed to it. The machine then analyzes the data and performs the task again, which produces the output along with more data. This data is fed to the machine again until satisfactory accuracy is achieved. Data is the most important part of the machine learning process. Hence, a huge amount of data is required. In the real world, the data is affected by a lot of factors, such as empty values, incorrect values, and such. Before the data is fed to the machine, it goes through various stages, including data manipulation, analytics, evaluation, and visualization. Data manipulation mainly involves activities such as data acquisition, where data is acquired from external resources that illustrate the real world, and data cleaning, where the data that has been acquired is formatted to remove missing values and redundancy, such as wrong values or wrong data types.  Data manipulation involves two main activities: Data acquisition and data cleaning.   Data acquisition involves acquiring data from external resources that illustrate the real  world.   Data cleaning involves formatting the acquired data to remove missing values and  redundancy, such as wrong values or wrong data types.  Once the data has been processed through this stage, the next step involves analytics. For a machine to learn from the data it has been fed, it tries to identify the relationship between variables present in the input. This involves activities such as correlations, where the machine tries to identify the data that has been fed to it to understand the relationship between the variables and identify patterns among the data.  Exploratory data analysis is another approach used to identify and summarize the main characteristics of data using visualization methods. Predictive machine learning is the stage of analytics where a decision is made on how to approach the data and what method to use to produce the required output. This stage involves the use of many statistical techniques.  At the final stage, the model is evaluated and visualized. The final outcome is an end model that performs the said task and produces the output. The accuracy of the output is compared and evaluated. If the outcome is satisfactory, the model is accepted. However, if the outcome is unsatisfactory, the whole model goes through a refinement process, where the whole model goes through the whole cycle once again. The analysis process requires the identification of underlying patterns in the data. During this process, a predictive model is created. The machine learning method involves the use of algorithms and is divided into three types: supervised learning method, unsupervised learning method and reinforcement learning method.  Supervised Learning Method: In supervised learning, the data used has labelled inputs with known outputs. At the beginning of this stage, the data which is fed to the machine is divided into two sets: training data and test data. The training data is fed to the machine where the machine tries to identify the underlying characteristic feature between the input and output. Once the machine has identified the data and the model has been created, the test data is fed to the machine to produce the output. Since we know the answer to the test data, the output produced by the model is compared with the known output. If the produced output is not accurate compared to the known output, the model is fine-tuned so that it can generate a more accurate result.  There are two types of supervised learning methods:  1. Classification problems: They are used to classify and label the data based on a specific  underlying feature or attribute of a variable.  2. Regression problems: They are used to understand the relationship between the inputs and outputs and help understand how the output changed in accordance with the change in input.  Unsupervised Learning Method: The unsupervised learning method mainly deals with data that has not been labeled, and the output of such data is not known. Popular approaches to unsupervised methods include clustering method, which is used to identify underlying data characteristics and features based on setting parameters to help identify clusters in datapoints of a dataset. And factor analysis, which is used to reduce the number of variables in a large dataset. An unlabeled dataset might have n number of datasets representing the same dataset feature. This method helps identify these variables to combine into one variable (factor).  Reinforcement Learning: Reinforcement learning can be considered a reward-based learning method. In this model’s approach, data is fed to the machine to produce an output based on its environment, and evaluation is given to the machine in the form of a reward but not the right or required output. The machine, based on the evaluation, iterates the process, produces output, and again receives rewards. This process is repeated again and again unless the desired outcome is produced.  