Topic 1 – Introduction to machine learning  Summary  Machine learning  -  A  set  of  tools  that  derives  meaning  from  data  (Unit  content,  1.4)  and  in  the  process  - learn from this data it improves performance. “A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E,” (Mitchell 1997, p. 2)  Machine learning steps There are three learning steps used in machine learning:  1.  Data manipulation: This step is where the data is acquired and processed. During data acquisition, the properties of the data is sampled to present certain physical conditions. For example, the data acquired for a bottle of wine may be the serving size per bottle, alcoholic content and year produced. The data is then stored. Anything seen as unusable or low value is trimmed. The goal of this step is to prepare the data for the next step.  2.  Analytics:  The  objective  of  this  step  is  to  create  an  accurate  model,  based  on  the correlation and relationships between the stored data. Exploratory data analysis is the summarization of the main characteristics in a data set. The findings are generally visualized using graphs, charts & tables for easier digestion. 3.  Evaluation  and  visualization:  This  step  review  the  results  produced  and  evaluates whether performance requires improvement or where  improvements can be made. If refinement is required, then the above steps must be repeated.  Learning types Supervised learning:  -  The machine is given training data to use to make prediction on never seen before data.  Examples: Watson, google voice, google translate (Content, SIT112).  -  Data is divided into two sets:  1.  Training  data:  When  the  expected  output  of  the  input  is  known.  This  is used to refine the machine and allows for process improvements to be easily identified.  As  the  number  of  correct  answers  increase,  then  the  better  the algorithm.  2.  Evaluation data: test the model using new data that has not been used for training. Using new data allows for an accurate evaluation of the algorithm. This data should only make up to 20% of the overall data. -  Two types of learning: classification problem & regression problems.  Unsupervised learning:  -  No training data is given. Machine will find patterns from the data. Example: k-means, disease subtyping (Content, SIT112). Popular approaches: clustering & factor analysis.  - Reinforcement learning:  - Semi-supervised learning. Learning is done through performing actions and learning from the interactions within that environment.  The  learner  reaction  is  evaluated.  If  the  action  taken  is  the  desirable,  then  some  sort  of positive reinforcement is given. Examples: Alpha go, self-driving cars Model evaluation & selection  The model must be evaluated to see if it is the best fit for labelling new and future test data. The  performance  is  checked  by  using test  data  with  known  labels  and  seeing  whether  the model used labels the data correctly.  -  Process of evaluation:  o  Data is randomly split into training or test dataset. o  Training data set is used first to learn the model. o  Test data set is used to evaluate the model. o  These steps are repeated and the results are averaged.  Machine learning & maths. Every decision, iteration and output made is based on maths. It is important to understand the math so that a well-informed decision can be made when selecting the model. Feature vectors:  -  Used to map the relationship between data and objects. -  Cosine distance is the degree of distance between two points, this is used to measure  the similarity between two points.  Matrix algebra: Used to calculate various vectors which make up various matrices. Vector space model: Represents documents as vector valued objects (content, SIT112). Calculating the Euclidean distance will find the distance between two documents.  Python An object-oriented programming language that will be used throughout this unit. I am familiar with python due to SIT112, so I will not be summarizing the overview provided for this topic.  