Machine learning:  Pass Task (Topic 1)  The ability of a machine to identify patterns within variables of a dataset to perform set activities with the capability to adapt and perform these actions to produce satisfactory results.  For a machine to perform a certain task, it would require data, i.e., input, which is then processed by the machine, and the task is then performed, which would result in more data. The output it produces may or may not be satisfactory. To ensure an improvement in the accuracy and capability of the machine to produce satisfactory results, the output data is fed to it. The machine then analyzes the data and performs the task again, which produces the output along with more data. This data is fed to the machine again until satisfactory accuracy is achieved.  Data is the most important part of the machine learning process. Hence, a huge amount of data is required. In the real world, the data is affected by a lot of factors, such as empty values, incorrect values, and such. Before the data is fed to the machine, it goes through various stages, including data manipulation, analytics, evaluation, and visualization.  Data manipulation mainly involves activities such as    Data Acquisition: Where data is acquired from external resources that illustrate the  real world.    Data Cleaning: In this stage, the data that has been acquired is formatted to remove  missing values and redundancy, such as wrong values or wrong data types.  Once the data has been processed through this stage, the next step involves analytics. For a machine to learn from the data it has been fed, it tries to identify the relationship between variables present in the input. It involves activities such as,    Correlations: In this stage, the machine tries to identify the data that has been fed to it to understand the relationship between the variables and identify patterns among the data.    Exploratory Data Analysis: This approach is used to identify and summarize the main  characteristics of data using visualization methods.    Predictive Machine Learning: At this stage of analytics, a decision is made on how to approach the data and what method to use to produce the required output. This stage involves the use of many statistical techniques.  At the final stage, evaluation and visualization  The final outcome is an end model that performs the said task and produces the output, whose accuracy is compared and evaluated. If the outcome is satisfactory, the model is accepted, but if the outcome is unsatisfactory, the whole model goes through a refinement process. Where the whole model goes through the whole cycle once again.  The analysis process requires the identification of underlying patterns in the data. During this process, a predictive model is created. The machine learning method involves the use of algorithms. Machine learning is divided into three types.  1.  Supervised Learning Method. 2.  Unsupervised learning method 3.  Reinforcement Learning Method.  1. Supervised Learning Method:  In this method, the data used has labeled inputs with known outputs. At the beginning of this stage the data which is fed to the machine is divided into two set training data and test data. The training data is fed to the machine where the machine tries and identify the underlying characteristic feature between the input and output. Once the machine has identified the data and the model has been created, the test data is fed to the machine to produce the output. Since we know the answer to the test data. The output produced by the model is compared with the known output. If the produced output is not accurate compared to the known output, the model is fine-tuned so that it can generate a more accurate result.  There are two types of supervised learning methods.  1.  Classification Problems: This method is used to classify and label the data based on a  specific underlying feature or attribute of a variable.  2.  Regression Problems: This approach is used to understand the relationship between the inputs and outputs. Additionally, help understanding how the output changed in accordance to the change in input.  2. Unsupervised Learning Method:  The unsupervised learning method mainly deals with data that has not been labeled, and the output of such data is not known. Popular approaches to supervising methods include:  1.  Clustering method: This method is used to identify underlying data characteristics and features based on setting parameters to help identify clusters in datapoints of a dataset.  2.  Factor analysis: this method is used to reduce the number of variables in a large  dataset. An unlabeled data set might have n number of datasets representing the same dataset feature. This method helps identify these variables to combine into one variable (factor).  3.Reinforcement Learning:  Reinforcement learning can be considered a reward-based learning method. In this model’s approach, data is fed to the machine to produce an output based on its environment, and evaluation is given to the machine in the form of a reward but not the right or required output. The machine, based on the evaluation, iterates the process, produces output, and again receives rewards. This process is repeated again and again unless the desired outcome is produced.  