Lesson Overview – Introduction of Machine Learning  Machine Learning is a field of how machines can learn to make decisions, predictions, and to improve performance of tasks through models built from sample data.  There are three categories of machine learning – supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning.  With supervised machine learning, machines learn a function from data with defined input and output, in another words, there is a well- defined  correlation  between  labelled  data  and  its  targeted  result.    On  another  hand,  with unsupervised  machine  learning,  there  are  no  distinct  labels  and  targets,  the  process  of  learning  is based  on  classifying  underlying  patterns  presented  in  the  data  provided  and  grouping  of  similar characteristics together  (similarity-based).   Lastly reinforcement learning is  when  a machine  learns through completion of tasks in a dynamic environment. Steps  in  machine  learning  include  data  collection,  preparation  of  data,  model  training/building, evaluation of model and model implementation/ improvement.  Collection of sample data is the first step of machine learning; data acquired should be reliable and can be converted into digital values which  can  be  handled  by  a  computer.    Second  step  in  machine  learning  include  cleaning  of  data collected in step 1, this may include addressing noise, redundancy and missing values.  Model training and building is the next step in machine learning, this includes finding relationships and correlations in the prepared data and using this information to build an accurate model.  Once a model has been built an evaluation of the model is required to determine its performance.  If the result is satisfactory the model can be implemented. Vectors are important component of machine learning, in machine learning algorithms, data instance is represented by a feature vector, they help us determine the relationships between data objects. Cosine  similarity  is  a  function  used  to  determine  the  similarity  between  two  vectors  and  cosine distance is used to express dissimilarity between two vectors.  In addition to vectors, matrix also has important role in machine learning, most machine learning methods perform matrix operations. Learning this topic also included Python programming; using and programming on Python 3 through Anaconda.  