Topic 1 Overview :-    Machine Learning basically means using set of methods  which helps computers the ability to learn with manual programming or handling.    Machine Learning also helps to understand huge data and derive proper meaning to it. For example, processing millions of user data for sentiment analysis in less than a day’s time.    Machine is widely used by many industries to improve  accuracy and efficiency of their product.    ML is mainly used in Automobile, Robotics, Computer  Vision, Games and other areas such as AI, Healthcare, stock prediction etc.  Machine Learning Steps include –  1. Data Manipulation –  Data Manipulation includes Data Acquisition → Data Cleaning → Analytics → Evaluation & Visualization → Model.    Machine Learning is a subdomain of computer science  that focuses on algorithms which helps a computer learn from data without explicit programming.    Machine learning is a subset of AI that tries to solve a specific problem and make predictions using data.  Types of Machine Learning  1. Supervised Learning - uses labelled inputs to train  models and learn from the results. Feature vectors are important for any supervised ML models. Types of prediction that our model can output in supervised learning are as follows: -  a) Classification – predict discrete classes [ could be multiclass classification or binary classification].  b) Regression – predict continuous values (e.g., price  of Ethereum or weather prediction)  In supervised learning, the training data includes output information (Labels/Targets). Target function → f: x→y Example – It is in the form of (x,y) denoted as (x1,y1) … (xn,yn) where x = set of attributes and y = a discrete label(classification), a real valued number(regression).  2. Unsupervised Learning - uses labelled data to learn about  patterns in data.  Best approach in unsupervised learning are as follows:-  ➢  1.Clustering/ Density Estimation ➢  2.Factor Analysis  Potential task for Machine learning in unsupervised learning are :- ▪  Information retrieval ▪  Data compression ▪  Anomaly detection ▪  Data Understanding and visualization.  3. Reinforcement Learning – agents learning in interactive  environment based on rewards and penalties.  Apart from these things, M.L. requires model evaluation and model selection to make sure data is accurately established and model is working with optimal accuracy.  To understand and be adept with Machine learning, mathematics is crucial factors to understand the data and for data wrangling process. From topic 1 we also got familiar with Vector operations and what feature matrix is and how it is used to feed data to the models to improves its accuracy to make human like decisions. We also investigated how matrix multiplication and normalization of data works and different types of matrixes available.  Getting hands-on experience and getting familiar with python libraries and language was interesting and exciting. We came across different data types and list and arrays which will be highly used in making machine learning models. Conditional statements like for loops and other functions are crucial and used to handle attributes of the data. This helps us to understand the user flow of the model by just looking at the function name and what it does. We also learnt how to use python libraries such as Seaborn, NumPy, Pandas etc.  