This topic served as an introduction to the key concepts of Machine Learning, as well as a refresher of Vector and Matrix operations and Python programming concepts and relevant libraries.  Types of Machine Learning  Supervised Learning is a form of machine learning which uses known information/relationships to train an algorithm. In supervised learning a model is fed a series of labelled data which is then used to classify new data – eg providing data around the characteristics of certain species of tree which can then be used to train the algorithm to identify the species of unlabelled datasets of characteristics.  Unsupervised Learning on the other hand involves the analysis of unlabelled data, where the build algorithm needs to analyse and find patterns or relationships from unknown data. For example, a purpose might be to provide recommendations based on products that are frequently purchased together.  Reinforcement Learning is an algorithm where the model is trained by interactions and experience with an environment. In this model, the algorithm is rewarded when a correct decision is made, meaning over time the algorithm will make the correct decision more and more frequently. Like the way that humans or animals learn from trial and error – in reinforcement learning, an agent explores and learns from its environment by receiving rewards or penalties for certain results. For example, finding the shortest path to a destination – over time unfruitful paths will be avoided based on past experience.  The basic steps of Machine Learning include:  -  Data Collection – the process of gathering data for analysis and use in machine learning  activities.  -  Data Cleansing – preparing the data for analysis, including removing anomalous and missing  -  -  -  data which can skew results. Training/Building the Model – a section of the data sample is used as training data to feed to an algorithm for training. Many different models may need to be developed/trialled to find the best/most useful results. Evaluation – the remainder of the data is then used to evaluate how successful the developed model has been at achieving a correct/desired result. Improvement/ Deployment – depending on the results of the evaluation step, further work should be done on building and training the model. Once the model is performing successfully, move on to deployment.  