What I have learnt this topic: Machine learning is a computer program that is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience . It helps to give us  insight from a  huge loads of data. We  can use it to predict based on the past experience (historic data) and the current data to make decision or even as a decision support. The application of ML is vast. We can use it in Robotics, computer vision, Board games, voice recognition, digit recognition and every other area that we need to make a decision and have an insight when we are dealing with huge number of data and variables. Machine Learning steps: In general there is 3 stages which each of these has different steps. 1.  Data manipulation which include data acquisition, data storage and data cleaning This is the area the covers under data engineering and includes the whole process of collecting, storing and cleaning data to be ready for Analytics stage. 2.  Analytics  which  include  Finding  relationships  (correlations),  Exploratory  Data  Analysis, Predictive machine learning After completing the first stage and make all the data ready/useful, we can start doing the modelling and analysis to do the prediction or getting insight from them. 3.  Evaluation & Visualisation At the end, we need to find out how the performance of the model is working and if it`s reliable or not. If we can rely on the output or not. We have 3 main categories in ML: Supervised learning Unsupervised learning Reinforcement Learning Supervised Learning: At this kind of problems, we have the target and the main reason of using them is prediction. We want to know based on the historic data and the outputs, what outputs we can achieve from the current and future data. Based on the kind of targets (outputs), we have two categories: Classification problems: when we are dealing with category classifications. We use linear and non-linear boundaries to classify them and make decisions. Regression problems: It`s when we are dealing with continuous variable as an outcomes; Such as price, cost, blood pressure, distances, etc. Unsupervised Learning: At these kinds of problems, we are dealing with understanding the getting insights from our data sets. Popular approaches in unsupervised learning are: Clustering Factor Analysis Clustering: The main point is to find the main similarity in the datasets. For example “Risk Analysis” to find out which bunch of data are categorised under Low, Medium or High Risks. A lot of clustering algorithms are distance-based and using distance to make a decision. The potential tasks for Unsupervised ML are: Information retrieval Data compression (reduction) Anomaly detection Data understanding and visualization Which are used in data engineering for feature selection, outlier detection and etc. Reinforcement Learning This is another type of ML which help itself to learn and improve itself. The machine acts, receives some evaluation based on its action, but it`s not told which one is the correct one for a desired end goal. It will impact on the future data that it receives. This is the way it will improve itself. Such as the chess game. Model evaluation: At the end of the day, after running the model, we need to evaluate it and find out if the performance of the model is satisfying or not; if we can rely on the model or not. To do this, we need to: Randomly split examples into training and test datasets Use training data sets to learn from Evaluate model using the test dataset Repeat for different random splits and then average the results Check the accuracy of the model and try again until the model makes useful predictions Model Selection: This is one of the most important parts in the process of ML. We need to find and decide about the best ML algorithm for our problem. The point is we need to run multiple models based on the problem that we have and then evaluate the results and performance to see which one fits best with our data and problem. Mathematics and ML: Mathematic is the base of ML. Algorithms are mainly coming out of mathematics and statistics. Understanding vectors, matrices and probabilities are helping to have a better understanding about the algorithms. At this course we are using Python as a programming language for ML. Vector: A vector has both magnitude and direction, but it`s a series of numbers. It can be in column or row in a data tables or mathematically in a matrix. Matrix algebra: Matrices are also a fundamental element of linear algebra and extremely useful in ML. most of the algorithms are dealing with matrix operations. 