Machine Learning  Defining Machine Learning  Machine learning is the application of algorithms that can result in an increase in performance or efficiency of a computational task without being explicitly programmed.  An algorithm will run and produce a result set, and over time based on the input and outputs of the algorithm, which is referred to as experience, the performance of the algorithm will improve.  Some examples of real world applications of machine learning are:    Robotics   Computer Vision   Board Games   Voice Recognition   Digit Recognition  Machine Learning Steps  The steps for machine learning are:  1.  Data Manipulation 2.  Analytics 3.  Evaluation and Visualisation  The ways that machines can learn are generally summarised into three main categories: Supervised and Unsupervised and Reinforcement. We will unpack each of these more below:  Supervised Learning  Supervised learning is where the training of the model involves matching inputs with known outputs. For example, if the model is designed to identify photos of cats and dogs then it would first need to be trained. Training with supervised learning would involve providing the model a large data set of photos of cats and dogs with labels of what they are. Using the labels, the model would be able to identify similarities between the dog photos and the cat photos. After training the model would be able to make ‘informed’ classifications on future photos to decide cat or dog.  Using supervised learning requires the training data to be split into Training Data and Evaluation Data. The majority of the data should go into the training data, with a smaller subset put aside to test the model and evaluate the accuracy. A good ratio for this split is 80:20 or 70:30 depending on the size of the dataset.  Unsupervised Learning  Unsupervised learning involves taking training data in the same manner as Supervised Learning, but without any meaningful labels or information. Trends can be found and patterns gleamed from the data and the model learns based on the output accuracy. Two popular approaches to unsupervised learning are Clustering and Factor Analysis. Clustering involes grouping similar points together to find relative similarities between the data points. Factor Analysis involves looking at variables about the data, and grouping correlations together to draw meaningful conclusion.  Reinforcement Learning  Reinforcement learning involves a model taking actions and receiving evaluation. This evaluation tells the model if an action was positive or negative, and provides a direction to adjust towards for future actions.  Model Evaluation  Machine Learning algorithms are referred to as models. We need to use the most appropriate model for task which we determine through tests and evaluation.  Mathematics Behind Machine Learning  Vectors  A vector, put simply, is a series of related numbers. These numbers relate to a magnitude and direction and allow us to represent the data objects in our datasets. The three main operations of a vector are to Transpose, Add and calculate the Inner Product.    Transposing means to convert a row vector to a column vector or vice versa.   Adding means to create a new vector where each value is the sum of the number in  each of the vectors at the same index. Inner product means to calculate the product of two vectors magnitudes.  Matrices  Matrices are two dimensional groupings of numbers, made up of vectors as the rows and columns. Matrices can be manipulated similar to vectors. We can determine how similar values are in matrices by measuring the distance between their plotted data. Methods such cosine distance and Euclidian distances are two such example to determine their similarity.  