Introduction Machine Learning can be expressed as a computational technique to better performance and to  attain  accurate  prediction  algorithms.  Classification,  regression,  ranking,  clustering  and dimension reduction are examples of types of learning problems.  Real world applications The primary need for machine learning is to make data-driven decisions where it takes into account data and outputs accurate decisions. Essentially, the machine tries to use the input data and gather relevant correlations and relationships between data, this is then used to create a prediction model that produces anticipated results (Subasi, 2020).  Machine learning steps Steps in machine learning include data manipulation, analytics, evaluation, and visualization. In data manipulation, data is first collected though either scraping a website or RSS feed/API. In  data  preparation,  the  data  is  then  cleaned,  wrangled,  and  prepared  before  machine learning.  This  is  because  poor  data  can  lead  to  building  poor  models  yielding  results  of inadequate performance. Data integration is done by appending the different datasets by combining them or merging different datasets with different attributes or columns. In data wrangling,  data  processing,  normalization,  cleaning  (primarily  done  to  remove  underlying errors and inconsistencies and formatting (so that the data is in a useable format) is done. Data  wrangling  also  includes  managing  missing  values,  data  inconsistencies,  correcting inappropriate  annotations  and  metadata  and  lastly  arranging  and  formatting  data  in  csv, JSON, relational formats. Once this has been managed, feature scaling and extraction takes places wherein the features that are desired within a dataset are extracted from the raw data and then scaled or normalized to prevent biases with machine learning algorithms. This yield new attributes from existing ones (Subasi, 2020).  In feature selection, a subset of features from the dataset is chosen based on its importance, quality and significance and dimension reduction is carried out to reduce the dimension of the original vector. This is carried out to retain the characteristic information and removing the unwanted information which can potentially reduce computational time in a classifier. This also help in achieving minimum classification error and enhances the performance of a classifier (Subasi, 2020).  In modelling, the data features are then input into the ML algorithm to yield a model and the formatted data with its attributes are then used to solve respective problems. Model building involves the combination of data features and machine learning techniques to yield a model that generalizes on training data and give results. The model can be assessed on its accuracy, precision and recall, F measure and mean absolute error. The model can be tuned by grid search  and  cross  validation  through  hyperparameter  optimization.  Machine  learning techniques include supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning (Subasi, 2020).  Supervised learning overview The  supervised  machine  learning  techniques  work  with  datasets  that  already  have relationships  established  from  the  start.  The  training  requires  segregating  the  data  into training and testing data. The two types of supervised learning include classification problems  and regressions problems. The classification problem involves partitioning the data space into two sets (every set representing its own class). The partition is known as a decision boundary which is a hyper-surface. It does not consist of the concept of closeness between categories. Whereas  for  regression  problems,  it  can  be  used  to  examine  the  relationship  between response variables and one or more predictor variables which results in a hyperplane that represents the analysis (Subasi, 2020).  Unsupervised learning overview Unsupervised learning is a type of algorithms that learns relationships and correlations from unlabeled data. Methods include clustering, density estimation and factor analysis. Clustering means grouping similar together and yielding a homogenous region. Some of the tasks for machine information,  reduction (compression  of  data),  detection  of  anomalies,  and  data  comprehension  and visualization(Subasi, 2020).  Reinforcement learning Reinforcement learning is when the learner interacts with its environment and receives some evaluation  based  on  its  actions.  The  actions  of  the  learner  affect  the  data  that  it  receives later(Subasi, 2020).  Model evaluation and selection Model evaluation is crucial to check the accuracy of a model, and this can be done by splitting examples randomly into training and test datasets. The average test set performance is then calculated, and this is repeated for different random splits and the result average is calculated again. The process is repeated till satisfactory accuracy of results is achieved to help the model make  precise  predictions.  This  method  is  known  as  cross  validation.  For  unsupervised learning, it is evaluated differently. Model selection is done by either looking at the averaged evaluation scores on various random test datasets or cross validation. Overfitting occurs when the model learns the information and noise within the training dataset which can impact the model’s performance negatively(Subasi, 2020).  Vectors  A vector has both magnitude and direction. It describes the relationships between data objects. Examples of vector operations include transpose, add and inner product. Distances between vectors can be measured by cosine similarity and Euclidean distance. Cosine similarity is a similarity function that is helpful in retrieving information. It measures the cosine of the angle between two vectors.  Matrix algebra  The two key features of a matrix is the number of rows and columns. Some of the basic operations in matrices include matrix addition/subtraction, scalar multiplication/division, elementwise matrix multiplication, matrix to matrix multiplication, rectangular and square matrices, transpose of a matrix, symmetric matrices, diagonal matrix, identity matrix, inverse of a matrix, orthogonal matrix and other concepts.  Python The python language consists of many different types of variables such as lists , dictionaries, tuples, strings and others. Lists are the most common data type in python and can contain values of different types. Tuples is similar to a list but it is immutable wherein it cannot be altered once the values have been assigned. Dictionaries are similar to lists, however, every element is a key-value pair. Strings can be used to store text and consists of the same indexing rules as tuples and lists.  Branching and decisions Decisions  can  be  made  through  conditions  where  if,  elif  and  else  keywords  are  used  in  a statement.  The  statement  is  said  to  be  Boolean  when  the  output  is  either  a  True  or  False statement. Indentation are important when executing conditional statements.  Iterations Loops or iterations can be done using for and while which can be used to iterate through lists, arrays and tuples.  Functions store blocks of code and can be defined using def then the function name.  Function  Matrix addition and subtraction, multiplication, division. Matrix manipulation They follow the concept of solving each problem programmatically based on prior knowledge and a good foundation on linear algebra matrices.  