Machine learning is a field of study that gives computers the capacity to learn without being unequivocally programmed.  How would you define machine learning?    Machine learning is the process of preparing a computer to recognize patterns in data, so that it can learn to create precise expectations or decisions based on unused data. It includes the use of different methods such as supervised learning, unsupervised learning,  deep learning, and neural networks to create models that can move forward over time as they are encouraged with more data.  Machine learning involves the use of computer algorithms to learn how to perform different tasks such as:    Robotics   Computer vision   Board Games   Voice Recognition   Digital Recognition  What do you think of these examples? Find another problem or application where machine learning could be used.    The above examples are some real-world applications of Machine Learning which are  in use in most of the systems.    Machine learning can be used in Medical field more to diagnosis to find out about a patient’s medical data such as electronic health records, medical images and genetic information to identify the problems and make predictions about patient development in a particular disease.  Machine Learning Steps  1.  Data Manipulation    The first step in data manipulation is Data Acquisition. Data  acquisition is the method of examining information that illustrates real world physical conditions with a predefined estimation.  2.  Analytics    Analytics basically includes finding relationships and correlations  within the arranged data in order to design an accurate model based on that input data.  3.  Evaluation and Visualization    As the final step of ML design, we got to evaluate the performance of  the system.    Supervised learning is defined as learning a function from data to relate inputs to known outputs.  For supervised learning, training requires partitioning the accessible data into training data and evaluation data. Most of the data is utilized to create and train a function ‘model’.  Types of supervised learning    Classification problems   In a supervised learning problem with two classes, decision boundaries are a hyper-surface that segments data space into two sets, each of these sets represent one of the classes. In other words, you partition the data according to a trained algorithm.    Regression problems    The overall thought of regression is to look at the relationship between  response variables and one or more predictor variables. This examination can result in a hyperplane, representing the regression analysis.  Clustering is the method of gathering similar points together. The objective of this unsupervised machine learning method is to find relative similarities in the data points.  Do some research and provide a real-life example from machine learning that uses unsupervised learning. Justify why it classifies as unsupervised learning and not supervised learning.    One real-life example of unsupervised learning is irregularity detection in credit card transactions. In this case, a bank needs to identify fraudulent credit card transactions without prior information of the fraudulent transactions. The reason why this case is classified as unsupervised learning is that there's no labeled data or predefined categories for fraudulent transactions. Instead, the algorithm must analyze the data and decide which transactions are unusual based exclusively on their transaction history.  Reinforcement, in this algorithm, an operator learns how to act in an environment by performing actions and learning from interactions. Learning from “interaction with the environment” duplicates the way people learn by instinct, curiosity and experimentation.  Other than applications in games, can you find an example where reinforcement learning is used in machine learning? Justify you answer.    Robotics: Reinforcement learning has been connected in robotics to learn how to control robots for different errands. For instance, it can be used to learn how to control a robotic arm to perform a certain task such as getting a handle on an object, or to learn how to adjust a robot while walking or running.  ML is based on maths. Maths underlies each decision, iteration and output.    Visually, a vector quantity has both magnitude and direction but it is truly a arrangement of related numbers. Their role in ML is about relationships between data objects.  There are three main operations in vectors. As we’ve seen vectors can be represented as a one column matrix.  1.  Transpose 2.  Add 3.  Inner product  Matrices are also a fundamental element of linear algebra and extremely useful in machine learning.  Later we looked into calculations with matrixes such as addition, subtraction, multiplication and division along with the related python codes.  The representation of a set of documents as vectors is known as the vector space model.  Later with the introduction to python we learnt the types of variables such as lists, tuple, dictionaries and strings, then about branching and decisions and indentation. Then we learnt and practiced codes in regard to iterations, for loops- which runs for a fixed number of times, and while loops.  Functions store blocks of code so you can call them by name.  Syntax is a function in python is defined using the keyword def followed by the function name and function arguments within parentheses (), and ends with a colon :  Anonymous functions are defined by the keyword lambda in Python.  Python modules and packages, Python allows you to store your useful function definitions in a file. You can then import it as a module in your current program.  ▪  NumPy - for vectors, matrices, random numbers, and linear algebra functions ▪  matplotlib - for plotting  