Summarizing all the important topics from this topic:  1. Define Machine Learning: Machine Learning (ML) is a set of tools that allows  computers to learn from experience, specifically the data provided to them, and improve their performance at tasks with respect to a performance measure. It is different from a simple computer program because it uses data to learn and improve over time. ML is necessary because of the large volume of data available that is difficult for humans to process and make sense of. ML systems can learn from the data given to them and produce useful results that respond to changes in the data.  2. Real-world applications of machine learning:  a. Machine learning involves computer algorithms learning to perform different tasks b. Applications of machine learning include robotics, computer vision, board games,  voice recognition, and digit recognition  c. Machine learning enables robots to perform activities such as cleaning, cooking,  and scheduling tasks  d. Machine learning algorithms have achieved high accuracy in digit recognition and  speech recognition, and are used in applications like Siri and Google Home  e. Machine learning has been applied to healthcare analytics, stock market  prediction, business analytics, and facial recognition.  3. Machine Learning steps:  a. The first step in machine learning is data manipulation, which involves data  acquisition and cleaning  b. Analytics is the second main step and involves finding relationships and  correlations in the prepared data to design an accurate model  c. Exploratory Data Analysis is an approach for analyzing datasets to summarize  their main characteristics or features  d. Predictive machine learning is the final stage of analytics and uses statistical techniques to build a classifier or intelligent system for decision making  e. The final step is evaluation and visualization of the intelligent system or model f. Refinement may be necessary if the system does not achieve satisfactory  outcomes  g. This unit mainly focuses on the analytics step, but data manipulation is also  necessary to build a model.  4. Supervised learning:  ● Training and evaluation data ● Two types of supervised learning ❖ Classification problems ❖ Regression problems  5. Unsupervised learning overview:  Popular approaches in unsupervised learning are:  ● clustering (similarity-based), density estimation ● factor analysis  Sharon Abraham Shaji 222555241  6. Reinforcement learning:  ● Reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning algorithm. ● The algorithm involves an agent learning how to behave in an environment by  performing actions and learning from interactions.  ● The learner (machine or human) acts on its environment, receives an evaluation  based on its action (reward), but is not told which action is the correct one for a desired end goal.  ● The actions of the learner affect the data it receives later. ● Reinforcement learning can be applied to games like chess, where the sequence  of decisions can be defined and used to train an agent  7. Mathematics and ML:  