Machine learning (Pass Task- Topic 1)  Machine Learning  What is Machine Learning (ML)?  It is development of algorithms and statistical models that let computer systems to automatically improve their performance at particular tasks, based on data. They learn from the data given without being specifically programmed to get accurate outputs for unknown data.  Machine Learning Applications    Recommendation engines  Image recognition   Voice recognition   Predictions   healthcare analytics: diagnosis and prognosis  Steps in Machine Learning  1.  Data Collection 2.  Data Cleaning and Preparation 3.  Model building/training 4.  Evaluate/Test the Model 5.  Improve/Deploy the Model  Types of ML  1.  Supervised Learning 2.  Unsupervised Learning 3.  Reinforcement Learning  Supervised Learning  The algorithm is given a set of training data where the correct output is already known, and it learns to map inputs to outputs based on this labeled data. It trains the model to provide new outputs for the new data provided based on the labeled input/output provided. During training the algorithm try to reduce the discrepancy between its anticipated output and the actual output in the labelled data. The types of supervised leaning are,    Classification problems - The goal is to predict a continuous numerical value      Regression problems- The goal is to predict which of several discrete  categories an input belongs to  Unsupervised Learning  This includes using unlabeled data to train a model, then letting the algorithm find patterns and connections without the use of labels or classifications.    Clustering- used to group together similar data points based on their attributes or  characteristics    Dimensionality reduction- used to reduce the number of variables or features in a dataset, while still retaining as much of the original information as possible.  Reinforcement Learning  Algorithm learns to make decisions by interacting with an environment and receiving feedback/ evaluation based on its action in the form of rewards or penalties.  Linear Algebra  Vectors – Vector Operations   Distance between vectors  Matrix  Matrix Operations  