 Machine learning is when software learns to do things it isn’t explicitly programmed  to do. This learning is usually achieved by providing it data (often too much to be manually looked at by a human, but quickly done by software) and giving it some ways to interpret and learn from that data.  Machine learning is used in many things such as robotics, computer vision and voice recognition. More recently there have been bigger strides in machine learning being used in the creation of digital art.  There are 3 main steps to machine learning. Data manipulation, which involves acquiring and cleaning the data in a way the machine can interpret. Analytics involves finding relationships and correlations in the data for the machine to base it’s model on. Then evaluation and visualization involves evaluating the performance of  the machine and how well it “learnt”. If the machine produces an undesirable  outcome then you would go back and tweak the previous steps.  Supervised machine learning is where the algorithm is given labelled data to learn  from. This type of machine learning is commonly used in image recognition, speech  recognition, and natural language processing. The algorithm is trained on a set of  data and then used to make predictions on new data.  Unsupervised machine learning is a type of machine learning where the algorithm  learns patterns in data that isn’t labelled. This means that unsupervised machine  learning can be used to discover hidden patterns or groupings in data. Unlike  supervised learning, there is no predefined output or correct answer, so the  algorithm must learn on its own without guidance. A real world example of this would  be used in online advertising, where users would be clustered into demographics for  an advertiser to choose which clusters to show their advertisements to.  Reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning where the algorithm learns from directly interacting with the environment, usually through a form of trial and  error. A real world example of reinforcement learning would be with self driving cars, where it uses data it collects while driving to better improve it’s behavior on the road. Most of the trial and error would be done in closed environments during development for this specific example.  When training a model, there are 3 datasets used: training, validation and testing. The training and validation are used during the training stage, where the training  dataset is the dataset that the algorithm directly learns from over each iteration. Also  Topic 11on each iteration, the model is run on the validation dataset which is also labelled. This step is used to make sure that the model is not just learning specifically the training data itself (over-fitting) and is able to generalize to other data. Once the  model has completed training, it is then run on the test data, which is unlabelled data used to determine how well the model learnt, and whether any changes need to be made.  