This topic the content started with an introduction, introducing the unit and unit team, outlining the structure and expectations of the unit and unit learning outcomes, an overview of the Deakin learning experience and how to access the unit resources and content.  Then the content shifted to introducing the main concepts and ideas around machine learning, this included the definition of machine learning and the different types such as supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning and the difference between them. Then showcased some of the real- world applications of ML, including Robotics, Computer Vision, Board Games (Chess, Go etc), Voice Recognition, Digit Recognition, and many more.  Video resources are provided which go into further details on topics such as Computer Vision and AlphaGo, showcasing features and applications. These examples show how the use of ML is quickly shaping the future and is being utilised at the cutting edge of emerging technologies.  The content then starts explaining the steps taken throughout the ML process from start to finish. The first step is Data Manipulation, this step covers the initial stage of Data Acquisition, which entails storing relevant data which meet the predefined measurements, including being able to be converted into digital values in order to be manipulated by a computer. This also includes Data Cleaning, which is the process of the removal of unusable or redundant data. This step of Data Cleaning is extremely important as data-sets can be greatly affected by noisy, redundant of missing values.  The second step is the main part of the process, this is where the data is analysed, this stage is known as Analytics. This mostly involves finding correlations or relationships within the prepared dataset to design an accurate model of the input data. The next stage involves Exploratory Data Analysis, this approach analyses datasets then summarises the main features or characteristics. This approach often involves the use of various visual graphics such as the use of graphs or charts to plot data in a way that is easier to understand. The final stage of this step is Predictive Machine Learning, this process uses various statistical methods, such as predictive modelling, to facilitate building a classifier or intelligent decision-making system.  The third and final step is the process of Evaluation and Visualisation, in this stage the performance of the ML system is evaluated to see if the model is making the optimal decisions and achieving a satisfactory outcome. If the performance of the intelligent system is not satisfactory, the Refinement process is necessary and repeating the previous steps one and two are required to adjust the model until a satisfactory outcome is achieved.  The content then moved to the mathematical side of ML, including vector and matrix calculations and manipulations, and finding the distance between two vectors. The content covered various relevant data structures and matrix variations which are commonly used in the field of ML.  Then the content transitioned to basic python installation and setup, and gave a refresher introduction to python programming and syntax, including how to import and utilise various libraries such as NumPy. Then covers some more advanced python concepts such as NumPy methods including matrices and how to manipulate them.  