Machine Learning Machine learning is described as a set of tools to derive meaning from data, and it learns from experience with respect to some class of tasks and performance measure. Experience refers to the data that is provided for the machine to process, and the machine can be said to learn if it can perform tasks on the information and react to the data to get results that get closer to a useful result over time. Applications of machine learning Some applications of machine learning include robotics, computer vision and voice recognition. Machine Learning Steps The three stages of machine learning are: 1.  Data Manipulation 2.  Analytics 3.  Evaluation and Visualisation Supervised Learning Supervised learning is the most used form of machine learning. It involves training a function or model to relate inputs to known outputs. The data used for training is divided into training and evaluation data, with most of the data being used to develop and refine the model, and evaluation data being used to test it with fresh input. There are two types of supervised learning: classification and regression. Classification involves dividing the data according to a trained algorithm, while regression examines the relationship between response variables and predictor variables to create a hyperplane representing the analysis. Unsupervised Learning Unsupervised learning involves finding patterns and relationships in unlabelled data. Popular approaches in unsupervised learning include clustering, density estimation, and factor analysis. Clustering involves grouping similar data points together to gain insight into underlying patterns or groups within the dataset. The number of clusters can vary based on the user's expectations and the behaviour of the data. A real-world example is given, where Netflix opened a competition for the best collaborative filtering algorithm to predict user ratings for films. Some potential tasks for unsupervised learning include information retrieval, data compression, anomaly detection, and data understanding and visualization. Reinforcement Learning Reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning algorithm where an agent learns how to behave in an environment by performing actions and learning from interactions. The agent receives rewards based on its actions but is not told which action is correct for the desired end goal. It is possible to train an agent to play games like chess by reinforcement learning. Model evaluation and selection In machine learning, it's important to evaluate models to determine if they will accurately predict labels on new test data. This is done by randomly splitting examples into training and test datasets, using the training dataset to learn a model, evaluating the model using the test dataset, and repeating for different splits. The most challenging task is finding the best model or fit hypothesis, which involves trying many different models and evaluating their fitness to the data through methods such as cross-validation or averaging evaluation scores on many random test datasets. Mathematics and Machine Learning Machine Learning is based on maths. Maths underlies every decision, iteration and output. To get great results, you need to understand the various mathematical concepts and processes that are the foundation of your results. Vectors and its operations Vectors are a fundamental element of linear algebra and are used to represent data instances, known as feature vectors. Understanding vector operations such as transpose, addition, and inner product allows for better selection and adjustment of machine learning models. Distances between vectors Cosine similarity and cosine distance are two measures used to compare the similarity or dissimilarity between two vectors in an inner product space. Cosine similarity measures the cosine of the angle between the two vectors, while cosine distance measures the angular difference between the vectors by subtracting the similarity from 1. Cosine similarity is often used in information retrieval, while cosine distance is used to express vector dissimilarity in positive space. Matrix Algebra Matrices are a fundamental element of linear algebra and extremely useful in machine learning. Most of the machine learning methods deal with matrix operations. The main two features of any matrix are the number of rows and the number of columns. Basic operations include matrix addition/subtraction, scalar multiplication/division, elementwise matrix multiplication, and matrix-to-matrix multiplication. Some special matrices The representation of a set of documents as vectors is known as the vector space model. It is a fundamental step in information retrieval operations. These operations can vary from a simple query problem to real search engines. In the text data representation step we had two documents with their corresponding feature vectors. By calculating the euclidean distance, we can easily find the distance between these two documents. It can be utilised as a quick way to find the closeness of two documents. 