Summary  Topic 1 Introduction  to Machine  Learning  Learning  objectives:  Discover  real world  applications  of  machine  learning - Review the basic concepts  and skills necessary  to understand  building  blocks  of machine  learning  Explore  the different  elements  and types  of machine  learning  algorithms  algorithms.  Learning  evidence:  Definition  of  ML: machine  learning  is a field of study  which  trains computers  to learn and  perform  tasks without   being  explicitly programmed.  Real-world  applications  of machine  learning:  ML has an actual usage in various  field like:  Robotics Computer  vision Board Games Voice  Recognition Digital Recognition There are 3 main steps in ML:  -  Step 1: Data Manipulation,  this is where ML uses  a large sets of data  and convert  it into  digital  numeric  values that  can be manipulated  by a computer.  The excess data will be cleaned by a procedure  Data Cleaning.  Step 2: Analytics,  Analytics  mainly  involves  finding  relationships  and correlations  in the prepared  data in order  to design  an accurate model  based  on that  input  data. Then  it is analyzing  datasets  as a usage to summarize  the main feature  of the data. Predictive Machine  Learning  is the last stage of  Analytics  is to use intelligent  system for  decision making.  Step 3: Evaluation  and Visualization,  the last step of ML design  is to evaluate  the  performance  of  the system, if it is not  satisfy, Refinement  procedure  is required  and another  round  of  data manipulation  and analytics becomes  necessary,  if its qualified,  the program  is good  to use  in that specific situation.  Next we learn about  Supervised  learning  and Unsupervised  learning,  these are two main types of machine  learning  techniques  used  for training  models  to make predictions  or  discover patterns  in data.  Supervised  learning  involves  training  a model  on  a labeled  dataset, where  each data  point  is accompanied  by a target label or output.  Unsupervised  learning,  on the other  hand,  involves  training  a model  on  an unlabeled  dataset,  where the model  must discover  the underlying  structure  or patterns  in the data.  Reinforcement  learning:  is a machine  learning  training  method  based on  rewarding  desired  behaviors  and/or  punishing  undesired  ones.  Model  evaluation  and  selection:  Model  evaluation  is an important  step in ML to evaluate  a model  if it will da good  job  or not. Tevaluate model,  we have  to randomly  split  examples  into a training  dataset  and test dataset,  then  we learn  a model  with training  dataset,  on  the other  hand,  test dataset is used  by model  evaluate. The result will be checked and try again.  Model  selection  is to find the best model,  to go through  this  we have to trying  out  models  and over-fitting.  Mathematics:  ML is based on  math  therefore  we need  various  mathematical  concepts  and  processes  to work with the data.  Vectors Vector  operations:  Transpose,  add,  inner  product Distance between  vectors Matrix  algebra: add/subtract,  multiply/divide,  transpose,  det,…  -  Python:  we use python  for  coding  the mathematic  operations  and training  data. We learn with python  functionality  like variables,  branching,  functions,  numpy,  matrix  operations  and other math  problems.  By coding  with python,  topic 1 has gave  me the ability  to read dataset,  understand  about  python  functions  to manipulate  the data, and  next is to analyze it.      