A Summary of My Learning During topic 1 I have learnt the various real-world applications that ML can be used in -- as well as an overview of the steps data engineers take to create ML models from data sets. I have done some refresher study on the mathematical concepts [1] that are important for ML development. I achieved 90% on the topicly quiz. I have also built some more skills in programming in Python – from completing the topicly programming problems – which is a language I am not well-versed in.  My Definition of ML Machine learning is the process of a computer completing tasks and using the information it learns from said tasks to change and measure its actions to try get closer to the desired performance set by the programmer, without being programmed explicit instructions.  Applications ML can be applied in a variety of different ways such as: Robotics, Computer Vision, Board Games, Voice Recognition, Digit Recognition, and even Environmental Protection – by analysing data from thousands of sensors and running “what-if” scenarios to model different ways to effectively reduce environmental impact [2].  Steps ML has three steps: 1. Acquiring data and cleaning noise values 2. Analysing relationships and correlations in the data and designing an accurate model 3. Evaluating the performance of the system and refining it  Supervised Learning/Unsupervised Learning Supervised learning is done by using labelled data sets to train the model to correctly and accurately classify data or predict outcomes. Labelled data is fed into the model and the model adjusts its procedures until the cross-validation process determines the model is correct [3]. Unsupervised learning is done by using un-labelled data sets to train the model. This requires different procedures to be done to the data, such as clustering.  Reinforcement Learning Reinforcement learning is done by observing how the learner performed after certain actions, and determining a reward based on whether the action was positive or not and using this observation to teach the model to adjust its behaviour.  Mathematic and ML As ML is based on maths, an expert data engineer will be able to apply these concepts to pick models, parameters, and why some models give better results than others.  