Evidence of learning Summary of this topic Overview of machine learning Machine learning can be defined in two ways:  1.  The “field of study that gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly  programmed”  2.  A program that improves its performance in doing a task in response to gaining experience  Machine learning is necessary to properly make use of the large volume of data that is available in many real world applications. Some of these applications include:  -  Robotics -  Computer vision -  Board games -  Language processing  The three overall steps to machine learning are:  1.  Data manipulation  a.  Data acquisition b.  Data cleaning  2.  Analytics  a.  Finding relationships and correlations in the data b.  Analysing datasets to summarize its main characteristics or features (Exploratory  Data Analysis)  c.  Predictive machine learning  3.  Evaluation and visualisation  Machine learning falls into three broad categories:  1.  Supervised learning  o  Can only be used when the data initially has a known relationship with each other,  which can be achieved using labels.  o  Labelled datasets make it possible to “train” the algorithm to improve its  o  performance with respect to a task. In supervised learning, the labelled data is split into a training data and evaluation data for the algorithm to train and evaluate itself. o  There are two types of supervised learning problems:  i.  Classification problems ii.  Regression problems  2.  Unsupervised learning  o  Used on large datasets to learn information such as patterns and relationships, and  o  to make decisions and predictions. In unsupervised learning, the dataset typically does not have any additional information. That is, it is unlabelled.  o  The typical tasks of unsupervised learning are:  Information retrieval  ▪ ▪  Data compression (reduction)  ▪  Anomaly detection ▪  Understanding and visualizing data  3.  Reinforcement learning  o  Reinforcement learning algorithms learn by interacting with an environment and  receiving a “reward” or evaluation based on its interaction.  o  The algorithm is not told what actions are correct, nor what the end goal is. o  The in some reinforcement learning algorithms, it typically learns which actions or  sequence of actions are correct by aiming to maximise its overall reward.  Mathematics used in machine learning Some of the maths used in machine learning include:  1.  Vectors and basic vector operations 2.  Matrices and matrix operations 3.  Basic probability  The information from the modules were just revision for me, so I have excluded that information from this summary.  Python The information on Python was just revision for me because I have used it for several years now, so I am excluding information about it from this summary.  