 1.1  What is machine learning? Machine learning is the process by which machines use algorithms to analyze large amounts of data in order to generate more accurate models or improve algorithms or perform information retrieval.  1.2  Machine learning steps The  first  step  is  to  collect  the  data  and  process  it  to  remove  redundancy,  noise  and  unwanted parts. The  second  step  is  analytics,  which  generates  an  accurate  model by  analyzing  the relationships and correlations in the data. The final step is to evaluate the intelligent system or model generated in the second step. If the results are not satisfactory then the data manipulation and analytics is repeated.  1.3  Supervised learning Supervised learning is used to obtain an increasingly accurate algorithm. The  key  to  supervised  learning  is  that  the  answers  are  known,  and  the  machine  is  trained  by manipulating and optimizing features based on the answers. For  supervised  learning  there  are  two  main  types,  classification  problems  and  regression problems  1.4  Unsupervised learning The  purpose  of  unsupervised  learning  is  to  extract  patterns  and  relationships  from  a  dataset without  additional  information  about  the  data.  Commonly  used  methods  are  clustering  and factor analysis. Unsupervised  learning  is  commonly  used  for  information  retrieval,  data  compression,  anomaly detection, data understanding and visualization.  1.5  Reinforcement learning Reinforcement  learning  is  an  algorithm  that  learns  from  interactions  and  can  be  used  in  logic games.  1.6  Model evaluation and selection Machine  learning  is  performed  based  on  known  correct  results,  and  model  accuracy  is  tested based  on  the  results.  However,  the  model  may  be  affected  by  the  training  dataset  negatively affecting the performance of the model on the new dataset, which is known as over-fitting.  1.7  Vectors Data instances such as images, audio, and text documents are transformed into feature vectors to be  computed.  For  example,  by  using  the  cosine  similarity  function  to  calculate  the  distance between vectors for information retrieval.  1.8  Matrix Matrices are used in machine learning to represent the functional relationships between inputs and outputs and to construct predictive models.   