1.  Machine Learning: According to IBM, Machine Learning can be classified as a subset of Artificial  Intelligence and Data Science. ML mainly focuses on using historical or current data and sophisticated algorithms to “learn” or catch the trends and insights in the data. The performance of such a ML model improves gradually as it learns from more data. 2.  Applications of Machine Learning: Machine Learning is predominantly used in Business Intelligence applications to predict future sales and revenues based on the KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). It is also used in Computer Vision which mainly deals with recognition of characters, digits and other objects in an image. Another very interesting application of Machine Learning deals with the prediction of weather, stock prices, house prices and other such predictable features.  3.  Machine Learning Steps: Machine Learning includes the main steps of gathering the data, cleaning the data, selecting the model, training the model on the cleaned data, and then evaluating the model based on performance evaluators such as accuracy and errors. The most fundamental step here is the cleaning of data which affects how well the model performs in real world scenarios.  4.  Supervised Learning: Supervised Learning is a type of Machine Learning that uses “labelled” data  to train the models. Labelled data basically means data that has the output feature in it. Supervised Learning models are used mainly for classification and prediction problems. 5.  Unsupervised Learning: Unsupervised Learning is a type of Machine Learning that uses  “unlabeled” data as the training set. These models have the ability of discovering similarities and differences in the data, making it the ideal solution for exploratory data analysis.  6.  Reinforcement Learning: Reinforcement Learning is a type of Machine Learning that uses the technique of positive and negative feedback to train the model. A desirable output is given a positive feedback, and a undesirable output is given a negative feedback. This feedback helps the model to understand what is a desired and what is an undesired output.  7.  Model Evaluation: A very important step in training a Machine Learning model is to evaluate the  performance of the trained model to improve the performance in real-world scenarios. For the sake of evaluating the model, we generally split the dataset into a training set and a testing set. We will train the model on the training set and evaluate the model on the testing set.  8.  Vectors: In Machine Learning, we generally use vectors for representing data. We will use cosine similarity for finding the similarity between two vectors. Sometimes, Euclidean distance is also used to find the similarity in the vectors.  9.  Python: Python is a popular programming language that is used for general-purpose  programming. It is an interpreted languages which means that the source code is not directly compiled into machine byte code. It was developed by Guido Van Rossum.  