Machine Learning  Throughout time, humans have learned by absorbing information from their surroundings through their  senses  and  experiences.  This  knowledge  allows  them  to  interact  with  their  environment effectively. In a similar way it is possible to make a machine do the same thing. Data or information in the surrounding environment are collected and fetched to machines and the connections between the different information can be taught to machine. As machines continue to gather  and analyze data, they become more knowledgeable and generate more precise output. This process is known as machine learning.  Machine Learning Pipelines  Pipelines  are  a  series  of  data  processing  operations  for  effective  machine  learning  model construction and analysis. Different steps in pipelines are mentioned below:  Data  collection:  It  is  a  vital  step  in  machine  learning,  it  involves  gathering  relevant  data  from various resources and understanding these data by identifying patterns.  Data cleaning: In this step, data is cleaned and preprocessed to ensure that the machine learning model  contains  minimal  an  errors  and  is  more  accurate.  Missing  data,  irrelevant  data, outliers, duplicate values etcetera are being handled in this step.  Train or Build Model: This steps involves using appropriate machine learning model by selecting the  correct  algorithm  by  choosing  accurate  parameters.  For  example  using  regression  or classification algorithm to build the model.  Evaluate the model: The dataset is divided into two parts, training and test data. Training data is provided as input while building and training the machine learning model. The remaining test data is used to evaluate the developed model to calculate the accuracy and error rate of the model.  Improve / Deploy: This includes steps taken to improve the efficiency of the model built by using appropriate hyper parameters and also by comparing with different machine learning models. Once it is completed, it is deployed to production environment and make available to client or end users.  Types of Machine Learning  Different types of machine learning models are Supervised Learning, Unsupervised Learning and Reinforcement learning  Supervised Learning: In supervised learning label about the dataset is already known. Regression and Classification problems belongs to supervised learning. For classification problems, linear or nonlinear decision boundaries are used to classify the data space in binary classification problem and multi-class classification problem. A function is generated to differentiate different classes in    dataset.  In  regression  problem  the  model  tries  to  get  relationship  between  different  feature variables in dataset and a target variable by analyzing the dataset.  Unsupervised Learning: There will not be any information about the data and there will not be any  labelling  in dataset e.g. clustering, dimensionality reduction. Similar patterns are  identified from dataset to group the data by extracting features from data in Clustering. In this approach, data with similar patterns are categorized and placed in similar groups.  Linear algebra  Vector:  In machine learning models a data instance is represented by vector. It represents a collection of numerical values or features of a dataset. Feature vector is generally used to depict input data in machine learning. Vectors can be Column vector and Row vector. Different vector operations are Transpose, Addition, and Inner Operation etcetera. Application of vector inner operation is to find measurement of similarity between two vectors.  2nd  norm  of  a  vector:  It  is  the  magnitude  of  vector  or  length  of  vector.  It  is  utilized  in regularizations  of  data,  feature  scaling,  and  similarity  calculation  etcetera.  To  find  similarity patterns distance between data points is calculated. Euclidean distance and cosine distance are two methods used to find similarity.  Matrix:  Matrices are used to load data into machines as numerical values  as machines understand only numerical  values.  Matrix can have any  number of rows and columns. Dimension of a  matrix  is represented by m*n where m is number of rows and n is number of columns. Different types of matrix are Square matrix (m=n), Rectangular matrix (m! =n), Diagonal matrix (all elements except diagonal elements are 0), Identity matrix (diagonal matrix with diagonal values as 1), Symmetric matrix (values on either side of diagonal elements are mirror values) etcetera.  Different matrix operations are Matrix transpose (Interchanging all col vectors and row vectors in matrix),  Matrix  addition  (matrices  of  same  size  are  added  element  by  element),  Scalar Multiplication  and  Division  (multiply  or  divide  scalar  with  all  elements  in  matrix),  Matrix  to Matrix multiplication etcetera. In matrix multiplication, number columns in first matrix should be equal to number rows in second matrix. Matrix multiplication is not commutative. Example, if A and B are two matrices, then A*B is not equal to B*A   