Introducing Machine Learning  Algorithms are the sets of instructions used by computers, allowing for them to perform tasks.  Machine Learning refers to computer systems which through the use of things such as algorithms, pattern recognition and statistical analysis are able to “learn” without being directly programmed. Machine learning is useful for performing tasks and/or analysing data in large volumes that can’t realistically or efficiently be done by humans.  There are many real-world application of machine learning such as robotics, computer vision, games, voice and digit recognition, these are just some of the possible applications as machine learning can be applied to many situations such as business and healthcare scenarios.  There are three main steps to machine learning, they are: Data Manipulation, Analytics and Evaluation and Visualisation.  The first step in Data Manipulation is the sampling of data that is representative of real world conditions, this is known as Data Acquisition. Data Manipulation then requires the data to be cleaned and trimmed to reduce noise, redundancy and missing values.  Analytics involves the analysis that determines any relationships and correlations within the data, these are often displayed visually to make the data easier for us to understand. Analytics ends with Predictive Machine Learning which is the use of statistical techniques to create the system that will be used for decision-making.  Evaluation and Visualisation is the evaluation of the decisions made by the system. Depending on this evaluation further Data Manipulation and Analytics will be performed.  Types of Machine Learning  Supervised learning refers to a function or model which learns from data when relating inputs and outputs, allowing for the “training” of algorithms/systems. Thus, data is split up into training data and evaluation data, allowing for the system to be trained with the training data and then tested with evaluation data (which the system hasn’t been exposed to before). There are two types of Supervised learning, Classification problems and Regression problems.  Classification problems involve problems with two classes which are separated by decision boundaries, partitioning the data into two sets resulting in the data be divided as a result of a trained algorithm.  Regression problems involve the examination of the relationship between response variables and predictor variables.  Unsupervised learning involves algorithms learning from unlabelled data, this is achieved often via clustering and factor analysis.  Clustering refers to the grouping of unlabelled data points together based on their relative similarities to understand any different patterns or groups within the dataset. This kind of learning can be most useful for: information retrieval, data compression, anomaly detection, data understanding and visualisation.   Reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning that involves learning how to behave in an environment by performing actions that interact with that environment and then learning from this interaction.  Data Representation Overview  Machine learning is based on math, and we are able to pick the most suitable models for a task if we understand the math behind them. When computing data objects we can often represent them as a vector, even if it’s text, an image or an audio file.  Cosine similarity can be used to measure the distance between two vectors and thus, their similarity, making it useful for information retrieval. Meanwhile cosine distance can be used to measure the angular distance between two vectors and instead indicates their dissimilarity.  Matrices are also integral to machine learning, there are many operations that can be performed on matrices depending on the features of the matrices such as their size and shape (rows and columns).  Introduction to Python Programming  While I already had Jupyter and python setup there this section of the learning was a good refresher on the basics in Python. These basics included variables, branching statements, iterations, functions and matrices (along with different matrix operations). It also served as a good refresher on how to use NumPy, particularly in conjunction with matrices and the different operations that can be performed on them using NumPy.   