 1.  Machine learning (ML) is a type of artificial intelligence (AI) that allows software  applications to become more accurate at predicting outcomes without being explicitly programmed to do so. Machine learning algorithms use historical data as input to predict new output values.  2.  Machine learning is a buzzword for today's technology, and it is growing very rapidly day by day. We are using machine learning in our daily life even without knowing it such as Google Maps, Google assistant, Alexa, etc. Below are some most trending real-world applications of Machine Learning:   Image Recognition   Speech Recognition   Traffic Prediction   Product Recommendations   Self-driving Cars   Virtual personal assistant   Online Fraud Detection   Stock Market Trading   Medical Diagnosis   Automatic Language Translation  3.  Machine Learning steps involves:    Gathering data   Preparing that data   Choosing a model   Training   Evaluation   Hyperparameter Tuning   Prediction  4.  Supervised learning use a training set to educate models to produce the desired output. This training dataset contains both right and incorrect outputs, allowing the model to learn over time. The algorithm evaluates its accuracy using the loss function and adjusts until the error is suitably minimised.  5.  Unsupervised learning, also known as unsupervised machine learning, analyses and clusters unlabelled information using machine learning techniques. Without the need for human interaction, these algorithms uncover hidden patterns or data groupings. Because of its capacity to detect similarities and contrasts in data, it is a perfect option for exploratory data analysis, cross-selling techniques, consumer segmentation, and picture identification.  6.  Reinforcement Learning(RL) is a type of machine learning technique that enables to learn in an interactive environment by trial and error using feedback from its own actions and experiences.  7.  Model evaluation is the process of evaluating a model's performance on a certain  evaluation configuration. Subject matter experts analyse the outcomes informally or quantitatively by producing quantitative performance indicators such as F1 score or RMSE. The machine learning assessment metrics you select should correspond to the business metrics you aim to improve with the machine learning solution.  8.  The process of selecting the best ML model for a particular job is known as model  selection. It is accomplished by comparing several model choices based on predetermined evaluation metrics derived using a predefined assessment schema. Choosing the correct evaluation schema, whether a simple train test split or a complex   Task 1.1  cross-validation strategy, is the crucial first step of building any machine learning solution.  9.  The main branches of Mathematics involved in Machine Learning are:    Linear Algebra   Probability   Statistics   Calculus   Discrete Maths  10. Vectors are used in machine learning to represent data points or characteristics. In this case, a vector is an array of integers that reflects the values of the characteristics. 11. Python is a general-purpose, versatile, and powerful programming language. It’s a  great first language because Python code is concise and easy to read. Whatever you want to do, python can do it. From web development to machine learning to data science, Python is the language for you.  Reflection:  This topic's material focuses on explaining what Machine Learning is and how it may  be used in a variety of applications. It also examines the many sorts of Machine Learning based on the type of data used as an input. Machine Learning, in my opinion, benefits users by rapidly and effectively learning data trends. It also assists businesses in increasing revenues by effectively managing inventories, delivery, and product placement in storefronts. Machine Learning enabled many other significant advancements, such as object identification and number detection.  