 In this topic we were introduced to machine learning (“ML”) and covered how to differentiate between supervised and unsupervised ML.  Supervised ML involves using input data that is already tagged with the correct output. The supervised ML model is trained based on this input data and is measured by how accurately it can predict data based on the testing set of data. Supervised learning can be classified into two types: classification problems and regression problems.  Unsupervised ML is based on unlabelled data and where the model tries to learn patterns and relationships in the data provided. Common ways this is achieved in unsupervised learning is through clustering or factor analysis. Unsupervised learning can be used for detecting anomalies, retrieving, or compressing information, and help to better understand and visualise datasets.  Reinforcement is another form of machine learning. This form of learning is like the way a human would learn where the algorithm learns through interaction with the environment. In this approach, the algorithm is not programmed what the correct actions are but rather receives feedback on its actions.  Given the variety of potential models that can be used, an appropriate assessment must be made to select the most effective model for the a given problem. This will involve testing different models to see which one is the best fit.  From a more technical perspective we were also introduced to the mathematics of ML, including the learning about vectors and matrices and their associated operations. We learnt that a vector is a series of numbers and can be represented as a one column matrix. Vectors can be transposed and added or multiplied with other vectors. The distance between two vectors can be determined by finding the angle between the two, by determining the cosine similarity. Inversely, the cosine distance can be calculated to determine the dissimilarity between two vectors. Further, we learnt the importance matrices have in ML processing. As part of this, we learnt the basic operations of matrices, including addition, subtraction, transposition. We were also introduced to special matrices, such as the vector space model, which is used in information retrieval operations.  We learnt python basics, including interacting with core python packages (i.e. NumPy), how to create and use variables and functions and how to import data. We then learnt how to implement key matrices operations within python itself.  