What is Machine Learning in terms of equation: “A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E,” (Mitchell 1997, p. 2) Mitchell, T (1997), Machine Learning, McGraw Hill.  Why we need Machine Learning? Because of the enormous of data, we generate and store. We can use ML to make sense of all these data.  Some of the real-life applications of Machine Learning is in robotics especially in walking, jumping pattern for humanoid robots and tuning the way a prosthetic leg moves for a one-legged patient. Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) uses data to find routes for rescue robots. ML is used to play board games and excels at them playing better than most human-rated players. Voice recognition uses ML to do speech-to-text. Digit Recognition is the task of reading in the images of handwritten numbers and letters and outputting its machine-encoded equivalent. Machine Learning methods (SVM and Deep Learning) have hit >99% accuracy for this task. Some other applications include facial recognition, business analytics, healthcare analytics: diagnosis and prognosis.  ML steps: Data Manipulation, Data analytics, Data Evaluation and Visualization.  Step 1: Data Manipulation  This is a process of data preparation. ML usually uses the largest sets of data available. There is Data acquisition which is acquire the data, Data storage which stores the data in a viable manner and Data Cleaning which any redundant, noisy, unusable parts of it should be trimmed.  Step 2: Analytics  The second main step in machine learning is Analytics. Analytics mainly involves finding relationships and correlations in the prepared data in order to design an accurate model based on that input data.  Step 3: Evaluation and Visualisation  The final result of Analytics is an intelligent system or model. As the last step of ML design, we have to evaluate the performance of the system. “Did I choose the right car?”  Supervised Learning:  According to IBM, Supervised learning, also known as supervised machine learning, is a subcategory of machine learning and artificial intelligence. It is defined by its use of labeled datasets to train algorithms that to classify data or predict outcomes accurately.  The above picture describes Supervised Learning Mathematically. In supervised learning, the training data includes output information (labels/targets).  Unsupervised learning is a type of machine learning algorithm that involves training a model on an unlabeled dataset. Unlike supervised learning, there are no predefined labels or outputs for the algorithm to learn from. Instead, the algorithm tries to identify patterns and relationships in the data on its own. Popular approaches in unsupervised learning include clustering , destiny estimation and factor analysis. Clustering is the process of grouping similar points together. Reinforcement learning is another type of machine learning algorithm that involves an agent interacting with an environment to learn how to make decisions that maximize a cumulative reward.  We need to be able to evaluate our model so that we can determine if it will do an excellent job of predicting the labels on new and future test data. We need to be able to adjust the model’s parameters and hyperparameters to find the best fit model. One of the common issues is Overfitting in machine learning where a model is trained too well on the training data and becomes overly complex, causing it to perform poorly on new, unseen data.  We usually represent a data instance with a vector, more precisely feature vector. Visually, a vector quantity has both magnitude and direction, but it is really a series of related numbers. Their role in ML is about relationships between data objects. There are three main vector operation: Transpose, Addition (Subtraction), Multiplications. We also need to remember how to computer magnitude of the vector. Matrices are also a fundamental element of linear algebra and extremely useful in machine learning. Similaryly some basic operation in Matrices are Matrix Addition/Subtraction, Scalar Multiplication/Division , Elementwise Matrix Multiplication, Matrix to Matrix Multiplication and Inverse of a Matrix. We also need to be able to identify different types of special matrices like Rectangular and Square Matrices, Transpose of a Matrix, Symmetric Matrices, Diagonal Matrix and Identity Matrix.  In python, there are different data types of variables other than the fundamental data types like Lists, dictionaries, tuple data type and strings. One of the more important methods to learn is to learn how to slice strings to only extract a part of a list/string using the syntax [start:stop], which extracts characters between index start and stop.  There are also conditional statements in python, like if.. elif.. else we need to keep in mind. We can also use for, while and do while as iterating statements.  Functions are very important to any programming language. Basically, Functions store blocks of code so you can call them by name. Anonymous functions are defined by the keyword “lamda” in Python.  NumPy is a Python package that provides a powerful array and matrix operations library for numerical computing. It is one of the fundamental packages for scientific computing in Python and is used extensively in data analysis, machine learning, and scientific research.   NumPy's main object is the multi-dimensional array, which is a homogeneous collection.  Example of creation of vectors and matrices using NumPy library.  We can do matrix multiplication in NumPy using the syntax MatrixA.dot(MatrixB)  np.linalg.inv() inverses a matrix.  We can transpose a matrix using MatrixA.T  We can slice matrices similar to slicing strings                          