 ● The amount of data produced in today’s world is enormous, hence it has become  intangible for humans to manually process these data sets that come in various shapes and sizes and in different formats. This is where Machine Learning (ML) steps in and helps us make sense of this data  ● It is analogous to how humans learn over time with their experiences in life. Similarly, the data we feed into these ML models act as an “experience” for the machine and after a certain number of iterations, we expect the machine to perform the task better at the end of iterations than what it started with  ● Some real-world applications in the recent past have been fascinating in the world of ML.  Facial recognition and Natural Language Processing are some of the most popular applications of ML. But other niche use cases for ML such as stock market analysis and business analytics are also popular in the industry.  ● There are 3 major steps for ML.  ○ Data manipulation: It includes collecting, storing and preparing the data for  analysis  ○ Analytics: This step includes exploring the data, finding correlations among many  features and training the model based on our analysis  ○ Evaluation: Here, the end results are evaluated and feedback is then worked out  to improve the whole process.  ● ML is further dived into Supervised Learning, Unsupervised Learning and Reinforcement  Learning.  ○ Supervised Learning deals with the type of data where the correlation already  exists such as a set of labelled data.  ○ Unsupervised Learning does not have a labelled dataset. The aim here is to look  for patterns in the dataset.  ○ Reinforcement Learning is a type of learning where the output of the machine is  either rewarded or penalised from the environment it is put in.  ● But in the real world model evaluation and selection plays a vital role in applying this  knowledge. Since, there is no perfect ML model that works for every data, since every data is of a different kind. We need to try out several models and evaluate what gives the best result and select the model based on that evaluation.  ● The backbone of Machine Learning irrespective of the model or use case, is the  underlying mathematics. Some major mathematics concepts such as Linear Algebra,  Statistics and Probability distribution are absolutely necessary to understand for any Data Engineer to work at full capacity.  ● The way that these mathematical concepts are applied in the real world is by  programming them in a computer. The most popular language in ML is Python. But Python alone is not enough, we need to understand how to use external packages such as Numpy, Pandas and more.  