TOPIC 1 Summary report:  In this topic, I have learnt the machine learning terminology. Refresh the knowledge of mathematics such as vectors, matrices, and probability. By using python to perform the ML algorithms.  Machine learning can be explained in an equation, the machine learns from the experience E and processes using tasks T, to perform P. To improve the experience E, it need continues to perform the tasks. The reason we need machine learning is because human can deal with too many data, therefore we need computer machine to learn from the massive data. ML has three main steps to make decisions, step one is data manipulation. Machines need to process a lot of data, data acquisition is the process of converting real-world physical conditions to the digital domain for display, storage, and analysis. With data cleaning, we trimmed the redundant, noisy, and unusable parts of data. Step two is analytics, it includes finding relationships and correlations in the organized data, exploratory data analysis is for summarise the main characteristics or features, and predictive machine learning the last step of analytics, it will use predictive modelling to build an intelligent system for decision making. Step three is evaluation and visualisation, it’s used to evaluate the performance of the result, if it does not achieve a satisfactory outcome, we need refinement procedure.  Machine learning has two different types of algorithms, supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms. Supervised algorithms it can be defined as learning a function from data to relate inputs to known outputs. It has two types, one is classification problems, another is regression problems. They are varied in different variables, the response variable of regression is continuous, and the response variable for classification is categorical. Unsupervised learning has following approaches, clustering is to find relative similarities in the data points. Reinforcement learning is also a type of ML algorithm, it is learn from interaction with the environment. Model evaluation is the process of using different metrics to understand the performance.  