 This  topic’s  lecture  in  Machine  Learning  unit  served  as  an  introduction  to  the  unit.  It  introduced the concept of Machine learning, its definition, and applications. It also introduced  its types in general and relevant math concepts. Next, the lecture gave an introduction about  Python, from how to create the needed environment and the variable types to the concept  of loops and basic array manipulation commands.  Machine Learning could be defined as the Machine improving its performance based on the  information it received without being explicitly programmed. It performs a certain task and  uses the data it is being feed to improve its performance and getting closer to the required  results. It has a lot of potential applications where a lot of data is available and conclusions or  predictions  are  needed.  Applications  such  walking  patterns  for  humanoid  robots  to  voice  recognition and identifying buying patterns are all suitable applications for machine learning.  In a machine learning process, few steps are needed. First step is data manipulation. In this  step,  the  data  is  prepared  to  be  entered  into  the  machine  learning  model.  Tasks  such  as  filtering noise and redundant information, converting qualitative information into numbers  are done in this step. Next step is analyzing the data. There, relationships, and correlations  are found between the data in addition to extracting certain characteristics. Another potential  task  in  this  step  is  prediction,  in  which  the  data  is  used  to  create  a  predictive  model  for  decision making. Last step is evaluating the performance of the model and use more data to  refine its parameters if its performance is not satisfactory.  In  the  lecture  we  are  introduced  to  three  main  types  of  machine  learning.  First  one  is  supervised machine learning, in which the relationship between the dataset parameters  is  known for the start and is used to train the model. The next type is unsupervised learning. In  that type, the relationship between the dataset entries is not known, or in other terms, the  data is not labeled. There the model must take this unlabeled data and find relationships itself  which could be inform of trying to cluster the data in groups depending on common factors.  Last type is reinforcement learning. There the model performs certain tasks and learns based  on the feedback it gets.   Math  is  the underlining engine  of  machine  learning.  In  the  lecture  we were  introduced  to  vectors, which are quantity in space with both magnitude and direction. A feature vector in  machine learning is a vector that represents certain information such as images or texts. We  learnt basic operations of vectors or matrices in general such as transpose, addition, and inner  product and some types of arrays such as diagonal and identity arrays.  Lastly this topic, we were introduced to Python, the programming language we are going to  use in the unit.  We learnt about lists, tuples, and dictionaries, which are ways to store data  in Python. Then we discussed certain useful commands and concepts in Python:  -  If statements: This is used for branching and decision making.  -  For and While loops: Those are used to iterate a piece of code for a predefined number  of times or until a condition is satisfied.  -  Functions: Blocks of code that can be used repeatedly by calling their name in the code.  We then discussed Python modules and the concept of importing them and used NumPy as a  study case. By importing a module, we have access to all its functions. And lastly, we utilized  NumPy to do array based mathematical calculations and learnt few functionalities such as:  -  Creating identity array (np.identitiy())  -  Multiplying arrays A and B (A.dot(B))  -  Creating a NumPy array (np.array)  -  Creating a random array (np.random.randn())  Upon reflection this topic served as an introduction for the unit and what to expect. We got  introduced  to  the  basic  concepts  of  Machine  Learning.  We  also  got  introduced  to  Python.  Used some of its basic functionalities and got a basic idea of the coding requirement of the  unit.  