Task 1.1P  A subﬁeld of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) and computer science called machine learning focuses  on  using  data  and  algorithms  to  simulate  how  humans  learn,  gradually increasing the accuracy of the system. The rapidly expanding discipline of data science includes machine learning as a key element. In data mining projects, algorithms are trained  using  statistical  techniques  to  create  classiﬁcations  or  predictions  and  to unearth important insights.  The learning system of a machine learning algorithm into three main parts.  1. A Decision-Making Process: Typically, machine learning algorithms are employed to classify or predict data. Your algorithm will generate an estimate about a pattern in the input data based on some input data, which can be labelled or unlabeled.  2. An Error Function: An error function assesses how well the model predicts. If there are  known  examples,  an  error  function  can  compare  them  to  gauge  the  model's correctness.  3. A model optimisation process: Weights are altered to lessen the diﬀerence between the known example and the model estimate if the model can match the data points in the  training  set  more  accurately.  This  "evaluate  and  optimise"  procedure  will  be repeated  by  the  algorithm,  with  weights  being  updated  automatically,  until  a predetermined level of accuracy is reached.  Types of Machine Learning:  Supervised Machine Learning:  The  term  "supervised  learning,"  which  is  also  used  to  refer  to  supervised  machine learning,  refers  to  the  process  of  teaching  algorithms  to  correctly  classify  data  or predict outcomes using labelled datasets. The model modiﬁes its weights as input data is fed into it until it is well ﬁtted. This happens as part of the cross validation procedure to make sure the model does not ﬁt too well or too poorly. A common example of how supervised learning aids companies is by classifying spam in a distinct folder from your email.  Neural  networks,  naive  bayes,  linear  regression,  logistic  regression,  random forest, and support vector machines are a few techniques used in supervised learning (SVM).    Unsupervised Machine Learning:  Unsupervised  learning,  commonly  referred  to  as  unsupervised  machine  learning, analyses  and  groups  unlabeled  datasets  using  machine  learning  algorithms.  These algorithms identify hidden patterns or data clusters without the assistance of a human. This  strategy  is  useful  for  exploratory  data  analysis,  cross-selling  tactics,  consumer segmentation, and picture and pattern identiﬁcation since it can ﬁnd similarities and diﬀerences  in  information.  Moreover,  dimensionality  reduction  is  used  to  lower  the number  of  features  in  a  model.  Two  popular  methods  for  this  are  singular  value decomposition  (SVD)  and  principal  component  analysis  (PCA).  In  unsupervised learning, neural networks, k-means clustering, and probabilistic clustering techniques are other algorithms that are used.  Semi-supervised Learning:  A satisfying middle ground between supervised and unsupervised learning is provided by  semi-supervised  learning.  It  guides  categorisation  and  feature  extraction  from  a larger,  unlabeled  data  set  during  training  using  a  smaller,  labelled  data  set.  Lack  of suﬃcient  labelled  data  for  a  supervised  learning  system  can  be  resolved  via  semi- supervised learning. It also helps if labelling enough data is too expensive.  Reinforcement Machine Learning:  Although the algorithm isn't trained on sample data, reinforcement machine learning is  a  machine  learning  approach  that  is  similar  to  supervised  learning.  By  making mistakes along the way, this model learns. The optimal suggestion or strategy will be created for a speciﬁc problem by reinforcing a string of successful outcomes.  Model Evaluation:  We should always assess a model in machine learning challenges to see if  it will be outstanding at predicting the labels on fresh and upcoming test data.  We must verify the  accuracy of  a machine learning model on test data with correct labels that we already know because future instances will have unknown label values. This evaluation serves as a stand-in for the predicted accuracy of upcoming data (which we do not yet know!).     To do this, we must:  1. Divide samples into training and test datasets at random  2. Create a model using the training dataset.  3. Use the test dataset and a measurement to assess the model (such as the accuracy of prediction)  4. Repeat the process with various random divides, then average the outcomes.  5. verify the results' accuracy and repeat the process (iterate) until the model produces useful predictions.  Mathematics and Machine Learning:  Math is the foundation of machine learning. Every decision, iteration, and outcome are based  on  math.  You  must  comprehend  the  many  mathematical  procedures  and concepts  that  form  the  basis  of  your  outcomes  if  you  want  to  get  exceptional achievements.  These ideas will be understood by and used by a skilled data engineer. They will be familiar  with  a  variety  of  models,  be  able  to  choose  models,  know  how  to  apply parameters (or edges), and comprehend why some models produce better outcomes than others.  1.  Vectors:  A vector quantity appears to have both magnitude and direction, but in reality, it is just a collection of connected numbers. Their function in ML revolves around the connections between data objects. A sample vector is shown in the example below. Keep in mind how the matrix representation of the relationship between inputs and outputs and the visual representation relate to one another. A similarity function that is frequently helpful in information retrieval is cosine similarity.  It  calculates  the  angle  between  two  vectors'  cosines.  Hence,  a measure of similarity between two vectors in an inner product space is called a cosine similarity.  2.  Matrix Algebra:  Matrices are also a fundamental element of linear algebra and extremely useful in machine  learning. Most  of the  machine  learning methods  deal  with  matrix operations. The main two features of any matrix is the number of rows and the number of columns.   Python:  Guido  van  Rossum  developed  Python,  a  potent  high-level,  object-oriented programming language. It features an intuitive grammar, making it the ideal language for  someone  learning  programming.  Google  has  been  using  Python  since  the beginning,  and  it  has  always  been  open-sourced.  With  other  pla(cid:414)orms  and  sellers, including Youtube and Dropbox, it is rising in popularity.  Python's fundamental properties:  1. Interpreted: processed in real time  2. interactive: utilise the prompt for Python  3.  Use  object  orientation  to  enclose  code  in  objects.  An  appropriate  language  for beginners  4. Simple structure, concise syntax, and few terms make it simple to learn  5. simple to read and keep up  6.a universal standard library that runs on UNIX, Windows, and Mac  7. assistance with large databases  8. assistance with GUI programming  Basics of Python programming:  1.  Datatypes in Python 2.  Branching and Decisions 3.  Iterations 4.  Functions 5.  Modules and Packages 6.  Usage of NumPy package 7.  Matrix operations  Quiz Attempt:    