Machine learning is a branch of computer science and artificial intelligence (AI) that focuses on leveraging data and algorithms to replicate human learning processes and steadily improve accuracy. Software systems can become better at anticipating outcomes without being explicitly taught to do so thanks to machine learning (ML). Machine learning algorithms use historical data as input to anticipate new values. (IBM, 2023)  Machine learning is a key component of the emerging field of data science. In data mining projects, algorithms are trained using statistical techniques to produce classifications or predictions and to uncover important insights. The decisions made by apps and businesses are then influenced by these insights, hopefully having an effect on crucial growth KPIs. Some of the fields where machine learning is applied are robotics, computer vision, board games, voice recognition, digit recognition, healthcare analytics, business analytics, facial recognition, etc. (IBM, 2023)  Stages of Machine Learning:    Data Manipulation- Data acquisition comes first in the data manipulation process. The practise of collecting data to represent actual physical circumstances using a predetermined measurement is called data acquisition. The data collected should be accurate when transformed into digital numeric values that a computer can manipulate. After the data has been appropriately saved, any unnecessary, loud, or useless portions should be removed. We refer to this process as data cleaning. Since noise, redundancy, and missing values significantly affect real-world datasets, data cleansing is a crucial step.    Analytics-  In order to create an accurate model based on the provided data,  analytics primarily entails identifying relationships and correlations in the prepared data. Exploratory data analysis, on the other hand, is a method for analysing datasets to highlight their key traits or properties. The final phase of analytics is predictive  machine learning. It creates a classifier or intelligent decision-making system using a range of statistical techniques, including predictive modelling.    Evaluation and Visualisation- An intelligent system or model is the product of  analytics. We need to assess the system's effectiveness as the final step in the ML design process. Refinement is important if the quality and performance of the intelligent system do not produce adequate results, necessitating yet another round of data manipulation and analytics.  Types of Machine Learning Algorithms:    Supervised Learning - When utilising supervised learning, data scientists provide  labelled training data to algorithms along with a list of the variables they want the algorithms to search for relationships between. The input and output of the algorithm are specified. (Burns, 2021)    Unsupervised Learning - Unsupervised learning algorithms are trained on unlabelled data. The algorithm looks for any meaningful relationships among data sets. Both the predictions or suggestions that algorithms generate as well as the data that they use to learn are specified. It can be approached by clustering, density estimation, and factor analysis. (Burns, 2021)    Reinforcement Learning - Unlike to supervised learning, which uses sample data to train its algorithms, reinforcement machine learning does not. This model gains knowledge along the way by employing trial and error. A series of beneficial outcomes will be reinforced in order to develop the optimal recommendation or technique for a specific problem. (Burns, 2021)  Math forms the foundation of machine learning. Each choice, iteration, and result are all based on math. This is a list of some of the main topics researched this topic to understand the mathematical concepts of machine learning in detail : Vectors and basic vector operations, Matrices and matrix operations, Basic concept of probability, and Python programming: using different modules and packages. The basic concepts for python programming are covered in this topic’s content and the concepts are implemented in the activity file attached to the submission.  REFLECTION  This topic's topic was thoroughly comprehending machine learning. We have examined its useful applications, many subtypes, and the evaluation process. We also had the chance to experiment with Python programming as well.  REFERENCES  [1]IBM (2023). What is machine learning? [online] www.ibm.com. Available at: https://www.ibm.com/topics/machine-learning.  [2] Burns, E. (2021). What Is Machine Learning and Why Is It Important? [online] SearchEnterpriseAI. Available at: https://www.techtarget.com/searchenterpriseai/definition/machine-learning-ML.  Screenshot of Quiz Score     