What is Machine Learning ? A way for computers to learn information by using statistical models and algorithms.  Activity: What problem or application where machine learning could be used ? Samsung and LG are leading the way in the latest trend in home appliances, with the release of their smart fridges using AI. These fridges can do much more than just keep your food cold, they also use machine learning algorithms to predict what you may want to buy in the future and add those items to your shopping cart All you need to is to click purchase and the food will be at your doorstep within days and it can help save so much time in car trips They can also notify you when your food is running low or expiring soon, helping you keep track of what you need to buy and what you can eat before it goes bad. These Smart fridges can even read and identify the ingredients in your foods, making it easier to plan your meals and ensure that you have all the best quality of food. In conclusion these fridges represent the future of AI, where it used machine learning to learn about your interest and actions to make your life more convenient.  Machine learning usually involves stages.  1. Data Manipulation  a. Data Acquisition b. Data storage c. Data cleaning  2. Analytics  a. Finding relationship b. Exploratory Data Analysis c. Predictive Machine learning  3. Evaluation and Visualisation  Step 1 - Data Manipulation This is a stage of the information preparation process. The largest collections of data are typically used in ML. The first stage in data manipulation is Data Acquisition where it involves taking a sample of information to represent actual physical circumstances using a predefined measurement. For example, choosing a pet animall you’ll need data of the breeds, colours, size, weight etc. After collecting these data you’ll have to store it and remove all the unnecessary data which is also known as Data cleaning  Step 2 - Analytics In order to create an accurate model from the collected data, Analytics primarily entails identifying relationships and correlations in the prepared data. To make it easier to read the data In the next stage Exploratory Data Analysis where graphs, charts and tables are used in order to summarise their main characteristics / features. The final stage is Predictive Machine Learning where it creates a classifier or intelligent decision-making system using a range of statistical techniques, including predictive modelling.  Step 3 - Evaluation and Visualisation Time to evaluate the result. The results are now being evaluated where we can see if the outcome achieves a satisfactory conclusion.  Supervised learning overview What is supervised learning ?  ● Learning model (AKA function) from collected data to related inputs to known outputs ● Trained using labelled data in order to make predictions from the data  ○ Training required divides the collected data into training and evaluation data  Types of supervised learning  ● Classification problems  ○ Goals is predicting a categorical label or class for an input. ○ For example if we show the computer alien and human, the computer needs to figure out which picture displays the human and which displays the alien.  ● Regression problems  ○ Goals is predicting continuous numerical value for an output ○ For example if we give the computer information about a diamond, such as size, shinness, carats etc, the computer will predict how much the diamond will cost.  Activity: Real-life example of machine learning that uses supervised learning ? Most commonly used is Spam filter where the computer trained from the dataset of labelled emails and used the information to predict if the emails are spam or not spam.  Unsupervised learning overview What is unsupervised learning ?  ● Learning model (AKA function) from collected data to output without saying what  output to predict  ● The input data doesn't have define label / categories and the computer has to find out  the similar structures / patterns from the data  Types of unsupervised learning  ● Clustering  ○ Goals is to find data with similar points ○ For example of you give the computer a box of toys, it might cluster them into  groups of legos, dolls and toy car base on the physical features  Activity: Real-life example of machine learning that uses unsupervised learning ? Use for marketing where the computer predicts what customers prefer by collecting what they usually search online.  Reinforcement learning  ● Where a computer learns information from user feedback. Computer will perform a  certain action and it will learn from the results of the user action.  ● Learn from experience as there are no labelled data ● How do there learn ?  ○ Take action ○ Change state / Remain the same depending on the result ○ Get feedback  Activity: Other than applications in games, can you find an example where reinforcement learning is used in machine learning? Justify you answer. Applications such as Netflix used reinforcement learning where the system developed a list of recommendations based on the time users spend watching something.  Model Evaluation  ● An important step in machine learning as it can find out the performance of  the trained model used in the unseen data.  How to create Model Evaluation ?  1. Split data into training dataset and test dataset 2. Learn model by using the training dataset 3. Using test dataset and measurement to evaluate the model 4. Repeat 5. Check accuracy 6. Repeat again  Model Selection  ● Process of picking the best model from the set candidate in order to make the predictions on new data. By picking the model it can affect the accuracy and reliability of the result (prediction)  What is the process of model selection ? 1. Find the problem to be solve 2. Collect / Preprocess the data 3. Select the data / model that are suitable for the problem 4. Train the data / model 5. Test the data / model  Machine learning split into three type of dataset  ● Training Set  ○ Used largest subset to train the model ○ Models are trained by changing the parameters to reduce the difference between the predicted output and actual results  ● Validation set  ○ Used the smallest set of data to evaluate data during training  ● Test set  ○ Used to evaluate the final performance ○ Find out the performance by using new data  Over-fitting  ● When the data / model predicts accurately for the training data but it performs  poorly for the new data.  ● How to fix over-fitting  ○ Using simpler data ○ The target is to balance the bias / obvious answer and create a data  that generalise well on the new data  Vectors and its operations  ● Vector: Fundamental element of linear  algebra and mathematics  ● Three main operation  ○ Transpose ○ Add ○ Inner product    