Overview In topic 1, we focused on the following learning goals:    Discovering real-world applications of machine learning   Exploring the diﬀerent elements and types of machine learning  algorithms    Reviewing the basic concepts and skills necessary to understand  building blocks of machine learning algorithms  What’s an Algorithm? In simple terms, an algorithm is a set of instructions used for solving a problem.  What’s Machine Learning? Machine learning is giving computers the ability to learn from experience/data and become more accurate at predicting outcomes without being explicitly programmed to do so.  Real-World Applications of ML Machine learning is used in many ﬁelds today, such as:  -  Robotics -  Computer Vision -  Board Games -  Voice Recognition -  Digit Recognition -  Others like: facial recognition, business analytics, stock market  prediction, healthcare analytics   Machine Learning Steps Step 1: Data Manipulation This is a process of data preparation. It has three steps:  a.  Data Acquisition: the process of sampling information that illustrates real world physical conditions with predeﬁned measurements.  b. Data Storage c.  Data Cleaning: trimming unusable parts of the data; datasets are highly aﬀected by noise, redundancy, and missing values.  Step 2: Analytics This will be the main focus of this unit. This step involves:  a.  Finding Relationships and Correlations in the prepared data to  design an accurate model based on that input data.  b. Exploratory Data Analytics: analyzing datasets to summarize  their characteristics or features. Many Exploratory data analysis methods use visual illustration data like graphs, charts, and tables, as they make data easier to understand.  c.  Predictive Machine Learning: using a variety of statistical  techniques.  Step 3: Evaluation and Visualization The result of step 2 is an intelligent system or model. In step 3, we evaluate the performance of that system or model.  If the quality and performance of the intelligent system does not achieve a satisfactory outcome, Reﬁnement procedure is required and another round of data manipulation and analytics becomes necessary.   Types of ML Supervised Learning Supervised learning is trained.  Basically working with datasets that have relationships built in from the start. For example, if you have datasets about vehicles, you know that most cars have four wheels while most bicycles have two. So, you could say having two wheels is a function of being a bicycle.  Training and evaluating data  Training requires dividing the available data into training data and evaluation data. We know the ‘right’ answers so we can select, manipulate, and reﬁne features to train the machine. The more otien the answer is correct, the closer you are to having a useful algorithm.  The evaluation data can be used to test the model with fresh, unused input data.  What we do in supervised learning is either: Classiﬁcation, or Regression  Classification If we have a supervised learning problem with two classes, we divide the data according to the trained algorithm into two sets. The outcome is a class.   Regression Another example of supervised learning is regression. The idea is to examine the relationship between response variables and one or more predictor variables. Mostly involves real numbers. The outcome is a number.  Unsupervised Learning The main question in unsupervised learning is How do you ﬁnd the underlying structure of a dataset which is unlabeled?  The goal is to ﬁnd relative similarities in the data points as this will give us insights into underlying paterns or diﬀerent groups within the datasets.  In other words, can the machine algorithm learn from very large sets of data without additional information about the data?  Can it ﬁnd paterns and relationships and make decisions or predictions?  Popular approaches:  Clustering  The process of grouping similar points together.  Example: if you had lots of data on all the ways people move around a city: long trips, short trips, time of day etc. would machine learning be able to make sense of it and tell you when to leave home to get to work on time?  Solutions: By performing clustering based on similarities and correlations, we might ﬁnd two clusters in the data points. We then might determine trips around the city of less than 25km and more than 25km. This creates two groups. The art is in working out if 25km is a good cut-oﬀ point.  Generally, the potential tasks for ML unsupervised learning:  -  Information retrieval -  Data compression (reduction) -  Anomaly detection -  Data understanding and visualization.  Reinforcement Learning In this algorithm, the machine behaves in an environment by performing actions and learning from interactions. The learner acts on its environment, receives some evaluation (reward/consequence) but it’s not told which action is correct. The learner’s actions aﬀect the data it receives later.  Model Evaluation We should always evaluate a model to determine if it will do an excellent job of predicting the labels on the new and future data.  To do this we need to:  a.  Randomly split examples intro training dataset and test dataset. b. Use the training dataset to learn a model. c.  Evaluate the model using the test dataset and a measurement  (like the accuracy of prediction)  d. Repeat diﬀerent random splits and then average the results. e. Check the accuracy of results and try again until the model  makes useful predictions  Model Selection One of the most challenging tasks in the assessment of ML models is to ﬁnd the best model or best ﬁt hypothesis. There’s no easy way to know if a certain model will oﬀer the best ﬁt. There’s so much data and so many possible features that we can’t be sure which model to choose. That why we try many diﬀerent models.  Trying Out Models There are many eﬀective ways that people approach this problem:  -  Look at averaged evaluation scores on many random test  datasets.  -  Cross-validation, for example, if you have datasets A, B and C,  try A|C. B|C etc.  Caution: sometimes when a model learns the details and noise within a training dataset, the knowledge negatively impacts the performance on a new dataset. In ML, we call this over-ﬁting. In other words, designing a model to suit the training dataset can result in poor performance on evaluation or new data.  Vectors A vector is a series of related numbers. Their main role in ML is about relationships between data objects.  In machine-learning algorithms, a data instance is represented by a vector/feature vector.  There are three main operations in vectors:  -  Transpose -  Addition/subtraction -  Inner Product: if we have vectors X and Y, we transpose one of  them before applying the inner product.  Vector Length:  Similarity and Distance Between Vectors    Cosine Similarity: used to measure the cosine of the angle  between two vectors. This helps in measuring the similarity between two vectors.  o  Two vectors with the same orientation, have a cosine  similarity of 1.  o  Two vectors that are perpendicular to each other have  similarity 0 (meaning not similar)    Cosine Distance: used to measure the angular diﬀerence between two vectors. This helps in expressing the vector dissimilarity in positive space.  Matrices The main two features of any matrix is the number of rows and columns.  Types of Matrices    Square matrix   Rectangular Matrix   Diagonal Matrix   Identity Matrix   Symmetric Matrix   Orthogonal Matrix  Operations on Matrices    Addition/Subtraction   Scalar Multiplication/Division   Elementwise Matrix Multiplication   Matrix-to-Matrix Multiplication   Transpose of Matrix   Inverse of Matrix  Important Topics Related to Matrices   Eigen Values/vectors of a matrix   Determinant of a matrix   Trace of a matrix   Rank of a matrix   Linear independence  Python Python is an open-source, high-level, object-oriented programming language.  Basic Features of Python  -  Interpreted: processed at runtime -  Interactive -  Object oriented: encapsulate code in objects -  Easy to learn: simple structure, close to natural language -  Easy to read and maintain -  Broad standard library -  Support for major databases -  Support for GUI programming  We will use packages like NumPy, Panda, SciPy, etc. to utilize some of the popular functions and algorithms.  Reﬂection on Topic 1 I have been familiar before with the type of applications ML is related to, algorithms, programming in python, and utilizing packages like NumPy. However, in topic 1, I learned about the steps of machine learning, which has always been interesting to me. Knowing them will give me an expectation of what is coming in my study of Data Science.  Furthermore, I dove deeper into the types of ML and how to apply them in python. I watched several external sources to learn that. Diﬀerentiating between test datasets and training datasets was challenging to me until I applied them in code.  Finally, ML models evaluation was a very important topic, even though we just scratched the surface of it this topic only. Knowing how to choose a ML model is deﬁnitely something I look forward to learn.  