Machine Learning  A machine can be said to learn if it can perform tasks on the information supplied and react to the data to get results that get closer to a useful result over time.  Some real world applications include: Robotics, Computer Vision (make better sense of a machines environment), Board games, Voice Recognition, Digit Recognition & other applications. Other applications would include a virtual assistant for appointments or directions, GPS services for transport & commuting or retail purposes such as product suggestions and understanding customer behaviours and buying patterns).  Machine Learning Steps  There are a number of stage in ML:    Data Manipulation (acquire, store & clean to reduce noise)   Data Analysis (finding relationships & correlations to statistically design a predictive model)   Data Evaluation & Visualisation to intelligently achieve a satisfactory outcome. If  unsuccessful (low quality output), then refinement takes place (repeat data manipulation, analysis & evaluation)  Applications of Machine Learning  Supervised Learning  Datasets have relationships (tagged or labelled) from the beginning, where inputs and outputs (classes) are known. Training data is used to help develop the model, with evaluation data being used to test it.  Problems can be encountered when classifying the input data (or making a decision boundary), therefore a classification model (algorithmic discriminant or rule) is generated to separate the functions of different classes. Findings that don’t obey the rule are considered an exception.  This algorithmic rule is then used to predict an outcome (or regression; the relationship between response and prediction variables).  Examples:  Email Spam filter, handwriting & facial recognition  Unsupervised learning  Training data is unlabelled – an algorithm is employed to learn patterns & relationships from large data sets, make sense of it and make predictions.  Clustering finds similarities in data and groups them together. This can be subject to bias.  Factor Analysis is a method can be employed when the complicated initial data set displays an underlying systematic independence. A statistical model can be used which condenses or reduces the observable input data with many variables into fewer unobservable variables called factors.  Examples:  Customer data – demographic info or transaction history    Reinforcement Learning  RL is similar to unsupervised learning but with graded outcomes – in other words an agent performs an action (makes a decision) and learns from subsequent interactions. If a successful outcome is achieved, then the resultant data is feedback to help reinforce the data’s validity – the agent’s data affects the data it receives later. Cumulative effects of multiple reinforcements help develop successful strategies.  There are multiple techniques & Algorithms which can be employed to build ML systems (many related to data mining & statistics)    For example, if a data set exists with well defined parmentiers, then a “k-nearest neighbour”  method is used to help compare & classify previously unseen data  A “Neural network” is modelled on how neurones work in the human brain where neurones are given a number of inputs which are then propagated depending on the neurones interpretation via matrix modification and an activation function  A “Deep Neural Network” involves multiple layers of interconnected neurones. This can be used in things such as voice recognition, natural language processing and translation services. Whilst deep neural net algorithms are improving services such as these, detection and misinterpretation of input data is still possible yielding erroneous results.  It should be noted that ML models may be subject to bias during creation & input data training, which in turn can affect how subsequent output data is presented.  Examples: Games such as Chess or Go and Robot navigation  Model Evaluation  A goal should first be determined when creating a predictive model – does the model need to be accurate, precise or have a high recall value?  Training data can be used in advance to help support a models selection.  However, it should be noted that “statistical overfitting” can occur when using this training data which negatively impacts on the predictive performance of a model when new data is presented. This overfitting can lead to an increase in error.  However, this can be offset via cross validation which employs “testing” data not previously used as a part of the training data set. This testing data is used to provide an unbiased measure of the predicative power of the model versus the actual training data set.  Mathematics  Various mathematical concepts (vectors, matrices & regression etc.) are used in the ML process, driving every decision, iteration and output. A solid understanding of mathematical concepts such as these helps improve ML outcomes.  Regression – a specific mathematical criterion is employed (algorithm) to predict an outcome between dependant and independent variables  Vectors – provide a relationship between magnitude and direction of an object  Matrix operations – provide a means of managing related sets of various object data (via columns/rows) through addition, subtraction and multiplication     