 Learnt about the unit structure in this unit which includes Introduction to Machine Learning with Python  Learned the platforms used in this unit such as CloudDeakin and Microsoft Teams and learnt the grade rubric and expectations of these grades.  Unit will be using Ontrack for submitting portfolio based assignments  Unit assessments will require to use Python programming for machine learning  Credit task covers wrangling and clustering, Distinction covers regression and High Distinction coves classification on Ontrack  Learnt the fundamentals of machine learning where:    I am able to understand what defines machine learning as an equation where it will process information using tasks which will produce an outcome or prediction. Essentially feeding information to the computer program to learn and create a result from that.  Learnt how machine learning is used in real-world applications such as robots in performing tasks, board games to play optimally and voice recognition for voice biometrics or verification for authentication.  Steps in Machine Learning where we collect the data, clean and organize the data, train or build the model using regression and classification, evaluate the performance of the model using a testing dataset and finally improve or deploy the model.   Learnt there are 3 types of machine learning algorithms. There is unsupervised learning, supervised learning and reinforcement learning. This unit will cover only unsupervised learning and supervised learning.  Unsupervised Learning   Learnt that it is an algorithm that attempts to learn patterns from unlabeled datasets where there are no additional information provided in the data  Poplar approach in unsupervised learning is clustering and I have learnt that it’s a process of grouping similar points together and present these patterns in the data There are types of unsupervised learning such as data understanding and anomaly detection.   Supervised Learning   I learnt that it is a function that maps the input data to the output data It divides the dataset into 2 models uses training and evaluation data   Linear models  Using decision boundaries to estimate the line to differentiate and represent two  classes  Non-linear models  Similar to the linear model, however, it uses more complicated decision boundaries instead of a line to differentiate and represent two classes.  Regression  Learned that regression is used to find the relation of the actual data variables and the predicted data variables.  Model assessment and selection  Assessment is used to evaluate the model for accuracy and error and using the model assessment to increase accuracy while also decreasing errors for future datasets  Selection is used to find the best model to use and will need to perform with  multiple models and evaluate their scores  Vector, Matrix and operations    Learnt that vectors are representations of data instances or features in a machine learning model and can be represented in a matrix form. Learnt vector operations such as length of a vector and 2-norm of a vector  Python   Learnt basic python type variables such as strings, list, dictionaries and tuple Learnt indentation, conditionals and iterations Learnt how to create functions and anonymous functions Learnt how to import modules and packages such as numpy Learnt matrix types and operations using numpy library Learnt how to manipulate a matrix   