1)Machine learning is defined as the use of algorithms and statistical models to analyse data patterns and make inferences, allowing computer systems to learn and adapt without being given explicit instructions. The main importance of machine learning would be having excessive data which leads to misconceptions but the automated machine will analyse the data and gives us the accurate results . 2)There are many real world examples of machine learning , the most popular one would be robotics followed by voice recognition digit recognition business analysis and face recognition .Robotics would take over the future by completing all the human daily and professional tasks in a perfect way .Voice recognition and artificial intelligence have been innovative in many ways for example Apple’s Siri and Google’s assistant and even used in some banks on transferring money .Face recognition have been widely used in many smart phones and now even become an important feature  for any new phone which is about to release in the market 3)Machine learning would complete its process mainly in these 3 processes which are Data manipulation , Analysis and Evaluation and Visualization . In the first step ,Ml would take some huge amount of data sets relating to some topic and manipulates the data in its own way then it starts data cleaning were it removes all the irrelevant data which isn’t needed for next processes . In the second step , Ml would analyse the data and try to find some corelations in between the data which is provided and in this it even illustrates the data in many ways such as graphs , charts and plots . In the last step it evaluates the data which is not much specified in this unit we mainly focus on the second part which is analysis in this whole unit . 4)Vector is defined as quantity which has both direction and magnitude. The useful operations which are done by vectors are transpose, addition, and multiplication. 5)Matrix- In easy words matrix is defined as numbers which are properly aligned in rows and columns . There are many operations which are done by matrices such as Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Division , Matrix multiplication between arrays etc. 6)The instructions were provided to download jupyter notebook through anaconda and then we have been introduced to some of the basics of python like for loop, while loop, do while loop, if statements , elif , elseif etc .Functions which are set of instructions which are declared and can be called throughout the program. 7)There were many examples for each and every coding example for different iterations and examples would be very useful for python beginners and it would so beneficial . 