This topics content I learnt what machine learning is, that is a computer learning withoutbeing explicitly told how to. The applications of machine learning in the real world withrobotics, computer vision, board games, voice recognition, facial recognition and more. Thesteps in machine learning, firstly data manipulation, collecting the data and then cleaning thedata. Secondly is the analytics, finding relationships and correlations in the data and lastly isthe evaluation and visualisation where we identify if the ML process performed satisfactorily.Supervised learning is using data that we know the relationship of the data and we split thedata into training and evaluation to see if the machine learnt correctly as we are aware ofwhat the right answer is. Unsupervised learning is when a machine learns patterns from adata set without any additional information on the data, not knowing about any existingrelationships to come up with its own way of clustering data. Reinforcement learning is alearning algorithm that rewards the machine for every action that brings it closer to its goal.Vectors have both magnitude and direction and are used for the relationships between dataobjects.We learnt the cosie similarity function to look at the distance between vectors to findhow similar two vectors are. Machine learning typically deals with matrix operations to sortdata and learn. I also learnt basic python coding that is useful to ML, such as interactions,branching and decisions, functions and how to manipulate and use matrixes in python. Machine learning is the ability for computers to learn and improve upon a task without beingexplicitly programmed. This fundamental concept can be explained mathematically as, whena program learns from experience E with respect to a task T and the performance measureP, if its P at T improves with E.The real-world applications of machine learning are inrobotics, to automate household tasks, take over simple robs, assist us in daily life such asreminding us of meetings or to take medication. They can recognize voices and speechwhich is used in Siri and Alexa as well as so many other applications to improve our livesand advance technology. The steps in machine learning are data manipulation, starting withdata acquisition and then storing the data in the right format, and then cleaning the data toreduce noise, redundancy and missing values. Then is analytics which involves findingrelationships and correlations in the prepared data to design and accurate model.Exploratory data analysis is used for analyzing datasets to summarise the features, typicallyusing a visualization method. Then a predictive ML uses a variety of statistical techniques fordecision-making. Finally is the evaluation and visualisation, this is where the machineevaluates its performance, if its outcome was satisfactory you know the machine has learnt,if not then the refinement procedure is required and another round of data manipulation andanalytics is necessary. Supervised learning is one of the main methods used for ML, it isusing one defining characteristic in a dataset that shows the relationship between data to train the algorithm. The data is split into training data and evaluation data, so when weevaluate the progress we know the right answer and can tell the machine if it was correct.One type of supervised learning is classification problems, in which we have 2 classes,which is where the division boundaries are set to split the data into two. Linear decisionboundaries is a straight line and nonlinear are irregular shapes to cluster a group. There isalso regression problems that are used to examine the relationship between responsevariables and one or more predictor variables. Unsupervised learning is when the machinelearns patterns and can make decisions or predictions without any prior information on thedata. A popular method of doing this is clustering, which is the grouping of similar pointstogether to find patterns, although determining the best method of grouping is the mainproblem. Reinforcement learning is when an agent's actions are evaluated on its actions andif the actions are correct it receives a reward to make it more likely to do those actions again.We use model evaluation in ML to determine if it will do an good job of predicting the labelson new/future data. As the classification accuracy rises and the error drops this shows that itis learning. Machine learning learns in mathematics, using algorithms to develop patternsand measure results, typically using vectors, matrices and probability. 