The main goal in the first topic of Machine Learning is most likely to be recapping what we have previously learned in Year 2. We will be reviewing about AI and some mathematics related to matrices. In this summary you will find all you need to get start for Machine Learning.  What is Machine Learning?  Image Reference  Just like the term explaining itself, it is pretty much trying to get the Machine to learned how to  solve problem without being hard programmed by developers. But how can a Machine learn to solve real-life problem by itself?  A machine can do this by becoming a better version of itself every single time it tries to solve a  problem. By letting the machine can earn Experience E, by evaluating its Performance P according to Task T. By seeing the result according to its Performance, it will add it into a database which is its experience to improve the knowledge it has. With ML, humans do not have to do all the basic work and allow AI to do it for them.  The three steps to Machine Learning are processing the Data using Acquisition and Cleaning,  Analyze the data, then evaluate the performance of the system.  Different types of ML  The two data-cluster types of machine learning are supervised and unsupervised learning.  Image Reference  Supervised Learning are trained and labeled data. This can be used for prediction. For instance,  can be used for Cryptocurrency fluctuation.  Whereas Unsupervised Learning input data does not have to be labeled. For example, like Spam  Emails, when it detects a pattern and should be pushed to spam inbox.  Reinforcement Learning  There are many different types of Machine Learning algorithm, Reinforcement Learning is one of  them. This algorithm is considered AI to learn from its experience and maximize growth, efficiency, and benefits.  We have Learner which is the agent of a situation/task. By making an action in that  environment, we move to the next state, the machine then evaluates its action and see if it was bad or  Image Reference  good and reward the agent. By repeating these steps, the agent will gain experience which is training the machine to always pick the right decision.  Mathematical and Machine Learning  Image Reference  Wrapping up this topic learning, we will end with a reviewing of Vector and Matrix. Since  Machine learning is all about data, by understanding the concept of Matrices, we will be able to grasp data and extract better information. The three main operations in Vector is:  Transpose: Converting row to column and column to row of a feature vector.  - -  Add: Adding two vectors together -  Inner product: multiplying two vectors together.  By finding the similarities between two data/vectors, we can use Euclidean vector by finding the distance for both vectors and then use Cosine to find the dissimilarity.  Matrix is two-dimensional vector, which means its divided into row and column. One of the  most important values we need for Machine Learning is Eigen Vector and Eigen Value. It can be used to find the variance and eliminate less useful data. This value can also be used for learning rate for a machine.  Reflection Before starting the first topic in Machine Learning, although all these topics has been taught previously, I would say that I have forgotten most of it. However, with this first topic materials, I was able to refresh and retuned my skills over Data Structure and Algorithm. I was able to get back into the basics of python very quick and able to understand Machine Learning such as Reinforcement learning and a little bit of vector and matrices. For Eigen Value and Vector, it seems that there’s a different way to finding these values as taught in last year, and I think that the way it was taught in this unit was way easier and convenient to calculate it.  