In 1 topic mainly focus on give a brief idea about Machine Learning and it’s real world applications.  Machine Learning definitions and how its used in real world. Such as robotics, Computer vision, Board games, voice recognition and digit recognitions.    Main steps in machine learning  Before using a data set, cleaning, and storing is the important part. Then we need the 3 steps to follow. 1st one is data manipulation, 2nd is analyzation then 3rd one is evaluation and visualization. In data analyzation we need to find the patterns and  relationships  between  data  points.  There  are  three  main  parts  which  is supervised learning, unsupervised learning and reinforcement learning. There are different methods to supervised and unsupervised learning such as classifications and regressions are the supervised learning methos while clustering and factor analysis  are  the  unsupervised  learning  algorithms.  Then  finally  we  need  to evaluate the out put and visualized it to provide outcome the data set.    Supervised Learning and Unsupervised Learning  This is the most important concept which s used for machine learning practical. The model is used only the label data is called supervised learning. The datasets always have relationships built in from the start. Therefore, these relationships known data is helps to build the algorithm. Here we divide the data set in to two parts  one  is  training  and  other  one  is  testing.  Then  we  build  a  model  for  the training data as we know the output, we can tune it as much as possible to get the desired output. After that we test it using test data to evaluate the model. Unsupervised  Learning  is  used  the  unlabeled  data  .  There  are  two  main approaches  used  in  unsupervised  learning  that  is  clustering  and  the  factor analysis.    Reinforcement learning  This is also a important machine learning algorithm. Here is used an agent learns how to behave in an environment by performing actions and learning from interactions.    Python is the language used for machine learning.  We learnt how to install anaconda and then how to use Jupyter notebook to run python codes. We have learnt about how to define variables then how to create list tuples and dictionaries. How to use iterations and create a function  