This topic was an introduction to the unit, what to expect throughout the unit, an overview of machine learning and how it is performed, and using Python to get started into Machine Learning. To my understanding: Machine Learning is where computer learns to perform a task or reach an outcome by deriving meaning from unlabelled data. The computer learns to make connections and relations between the data it receives after being trained with test data and evaluated the goal is to infer as accurately as possible a desired result or observation. To get to that point there are certain steps such as Data Manipulation, Analytics, and Evaluation and Visualisation to develop a working model. This is facilitated by different types of learning to train the models, which then need to be evaluated for suitability – making sure it is doing what it needs to do. It was interesting to look further into some of the real-world applications of machine learning and some of the exciting things it is capable of. I’m really excited to see how robotics develops as there is so many ways that could be incredibly helpful such as workplace safety, helping the environment and exploration of the world and space. It was great to see how far it has come along such as the Boston Dynamics demonstrations on YouTube. It was great to have an overview of vectors, matrices and probabilities. Though I had learned about these in other units I was a bit rusty on them and found it useful to re-learn and identify the gaps in my knowledge that had not been filled in from previous units. Going through how to access the matrices utilising Python and numpy were beneficial exercises for working towards the Pass activities. Overall it was a useful re-cap and introduction into Machine Learning. The Pass activities were interesting and helped to shake off some of the cob-webs in using Conda, Jupyter-Lab, Python and Numpy. For myself I have been using miniConda as I find that much easier to manage the libraries and virtual environments compared to Anaconda. 