 What is Machine Learning?  Machine learning (ML) is a field of study that allows computers to learn without being explicitly programmed. It is a set of tools that enables computers to derive meaning from data. ML can be defined mathematically as a computer program that learns from experience E with respect to a class of tasks T and performance measure P. The program's performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E. Experience E refers to the data that is provided for the machine to process, and it is used to get closer to a useful result over time. ML is necessary because there is too much data available for humans to make sense of. Automated systems that use ML can learn from the data provided and respond to changes to produce useful results.  Steps in Machine Learning  Machine learning involves a process of data manipulation, analytics, and evaluation to make decisions based on patterns and relationships found in the data. The first step is data acquisition, where data is collected and converted into digital numeric values. The next step is analytics, which involves finding relationships and correlations in the data through exploratory data analysis and predictive machine learning. The final step is evaluation and visualization, where the performance of the intelligent system is assessed and refined if necessary.  There are three types of ML algorithms:    Supervised Learning    Unsupervised Learning    Reinforcement Learning  Supervised Learning  Supervised learning is a machine learning technique that involves training a function or model from data to relate inputs to known outputs. Datasets in supervised learning have relationships built in from the start, making it possible to train the algorithm. Training requires dividing the data into training and evaluation data, with most of the data used to develop and train the model. There are two types of supervised learning: classification problems, which involve dividing data into two classes based on a trained algorithm, and regression problems, which examine the relationship between response and predictor variables to produce a hyperplane representing the regression analysis.  Unsupervised Learning  This is a machine learning technique that uses machine learning algorithms to analyse and cluster unlabelled datasets. The main question in unsupervised learning is how to find the underlying structure of an unlabelled dataset and learn patterns without additional information. Popular approaches include clustering and factor analysis. Clustering involves grouping similar points together to find relative similarities and correlations, potentially resulting in multiple clusters. An example of an unsupervised learning problem is the Netflix competition to predict user ratings for films. Tasks for unsupervised learning include information retrieval, data compression, anomaly detection, data understanding, and visualization.  Reinforcement Learning  Reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning algorithm where an agent learns to behave in an environment by performing actions and learning from interactions. The learner is not told which action is correct, but receives a reward based on its actions. This algorithm replicates the way humans learn by instinct, curiosity, and experimentation. Chess is an example of a game where reinforcement learning can be applied to train an agent to play.  Model Evaluation and Selection  In machine learning, it is important to evaluate models to ensure they can accurately predict labels on new data. This is done by randomly splitting data into training and test datasets and evaluating the model's accuracy on the test data. Model selection is a difficult task as there are many possible models that can be used, and different models will have varying degrees of fitness to the data. To find the best fit model, many different models are tried and evaluated using techniques such as cross-validation or evaluating on multiple random test datasets. The goal is to find a model that can make useful predictions on new data.  Maths and ML  The success of machine learning (ML) depends on understanding and applying mathematical concepts and processes. ML is based on maths, and an expert Data Engineer needs to have knowledge and understanding of various models, how to select them, and apply the parameters to achieve better results. Some of the key mathematical areas that are essential for ML are vectors, matrices, and basic probability concepts. Additionally, proficiency in programming with Python and using different modules and packages is crucial for ML.  Vectors and its Operations  The understanding of mathematical concepts like vectors, matrices, and probability is essential for selecting the best models and achieving the best outcomes in machine learning. Vectors are fundamental to linear algebra and widely used in ML algorithms. Data instances are often represented by feature vectors, which are a series of related numbers representing the relationship between inputs and outputs. Vector operations include transpose, add, and inner product. The knowledge of these concepts provides the ability to manipulate data and extract useful information.  Distance between vectors  The cosine similarity and cosine distance are two measures used to calculate the similarity or dissimilarity between two vectors in an inner product space. Cosine similarity measures the cosine of the angle between two vectors while cosine distance measures the angular difference between them. Cosine distance is computed by subtracting the similarity from 1 and can be calculated via Euclidean distance if vectors are made unit vectors.  Matrix Algebra  Matrices are also a fundamental element of linear algebra and extremely useful in machine learning. Most of the machine learning methods deal with matrix operations. The main two features of any matrix are the number of rows and the number of columns.  Matrix Types  Transpose of a Matrix  Rectangular and Square Matrices  If a matrix A has size m×n such that m=n, then it is called a square matrix; otherwise, it is a rectangular matrix.  Diagonal Matrix  A matrix A is called a diagonal matrix if A(i,j)=0 for all i≠j. Diagonal matrix is always a square matrix.  Identity Matrix  A matrix I is called an identity matrix if it is a diagonal matrix and I(i,i)=1 denotes nxn identity matrix.  Symmetric Matrix  A matrix is symmetric if it is equal to its transpose. Symmetric matrices are always square.  Matrix Addition/Subtraction  You can add or subtract matrices if they are the same size. The elements in the corresponding positions are added or subtracted.  Matrix to Matrix Multiplication  Number of columns in the first matrix is equal to the number of rows in the second matrix.  Consider AB=C. Now C(i,j) is computed by dot product of A(i,:) and B(:,j).  Matrix multiplication is NOT commutative. Multiplication order matters. In general AB≠BA.  Inverse Matrix  Matrix A is called as inverse of matrix B, if and only if BA=AB=I.  Since AB=BA, both A and B need to be a square matrix.  If A is inverse of B, we denote it as:  Inverse of a matrix A exists only if its determinant is nonzero.  Reflection and summary of the reading list  All most all the content introduced in topic 1 was not new to me. I’ve previously learnt about the types of Machine Learning algorithms and even implemented some algorithms using  Python in a previous unit, Data Science. And also, I recently completed the Microsoft certified Azure AI Fundamental certificate course which covered all of the topic 1 content in more detail. Hence, none of this topic’s content was new to me and no further reading was required to understand them.  