SIT 720 – Topic 1 – Lachlan Smith  1)  In topic one, I took away the following main points:  a.  Machine learning has three main styles of training: supervised learning,  unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning. The style being used depends on exactly what we want the model to learn and what data we have available to train with. As examples, classifying labelled images of different types of animals would be supervised learning, grouping customer data into different demographics for marketing purposes would be unsupervised learning, and training a robot to pick up delicate objects without breaking them would be reinforcement learning. b.  Mathematics is incredibly important for machine learning. While I was already aware of this to some degree, the extent of it is far more than I realised.  c.  Basics of Python. The vast majority of machine learning nowadays is done in Python, so getting up to speed with it is imperative. Covered there were the fundamentals of the control flow of a program as well as a few widely-used packages for machine learning and data science work.  2)  My personal reading list this topic consisted primarily of the documentation for NumPy,  Pandas, and Python itself. Conceptually, I felt the lectures did a good job of the overall topics presented so my time outside of class was mostly used looking through the official notes on how the language and libraries work. I find myself that I learn better by going to the original source, especially on technical topics. In particular, the documentation for NumPy has been incredibly useful for getting to grips with more optimised ways of performing matrix operations (as opposed to simply iterating over every element with a nested for loop, for example). Aside from that, going to Stackoverflow and finding the tags for numpy and pandas has helped me pick out the common things that people get stuck on, as well as how to get around them. I haven’t yet had a chance to use any of those tips but I’m sure they’ll be useful later on when I’m trying to speed up the training on an ML model.  3)  I already knew some things about machine learning before coming into this unit, but the  biggest thing that I gained was around the libraries like NumPy and Pandas that are critical for preparing the data to be used in performing machine learning. In the past I’d mainly used R and Matlab, so learning how to read in and work with data sets in Python is especially useful to me.  4)         