 What is Machine Learning?  Before trying to teach a machine to learn we should understand how a kid learns. With that understanding, we can understand the concepts of machine learning.  When a kid is introduced to the world he doesn’t know anything about this world. He learns little by little. He touches, he sees, he smells, and he hears. With those senses, he learns little by little obtaining experiences. Later when he gets something new he understands that with previous experiences and reacts to that. For his reaction, he gets rewards or punishments. That’s how a kid learns new things.  The human brain interacts with the environment with 5 sensors, collect information, analyses with the help of historical data, and experiments and improves with those.  Machines are the same as that. We collect information from the environment and pass it to the machines and machines understand those data, and find relationships and patterns.  Machine learning is not like traditional systems such as searching algorithms. Traditional algorithms are static. They don’t change according to the data passed. Only the result changes. Machine learning is different from this. Machine learning tries to understand data. The model is adjusted according to the data feed to it.  Steps in ML  ● Data collection ● Clean and prepare data ● Train / build model ● Evaluate the model ● Improve / deploy  There are different types of data such as Textual, Voice, Audio and images.  When we talk about Machine learning algorithms, there are categories.  1. Supervised Learning  Work with labelled data. Do not interact in a dynamic manner. Have input data and output data. Try to map input data to output data.  a. Classification b. Regression  2. Unsupervised Learning  Work with unlabeled data. Do not interact in a dynamic manner.  a. Clustering  Finding Similarities and grouping data.  b. Dimensionality reduction  3. Reinforcement Learning  Works on reward action.  The agent interacts with the environment and gets rewards and punishments and decides the next action.  Interact in a dynamic manner.  After a model is built it needs to be evaluated. These two points are evaluated  1. Accuracy 2. Error  We try to increase accuracy and decrease the error. We have to assess several models and select the best model. And we need to justify why we select that model.  Linear Algebra  We have to feed the machine numbers as the machine can recognize only the numbers. Therefore we need to convert our data to numerical values.  Vectors  There are row vectors and column vectors.  There are three vector operations.  1. Transpose 2. Addition 3.  Inner Product  Distance between vectors can be used to find similarities between data points.  To find the distance between vectors  1. Euclidean distance 2. Cosine distance  Matrices  Matrices have rows and columns.  There are  1. Rectangular matrix 2. Square matrix 3. Diagonal matrix 4. Identity matrix 5. Symmetric matrix  Matrix Operations  1. Addition 2. Subtraction 3. Scalar Multiplication or division 4. Element Wise matric multiplication 5. Matrix to Matrix multiplication  Summary  ● Different data types ● What’s Machine Learning in general ● Different types of Machine Learning ● What are the pipelines in Machine Learning ● Evaluate and select the best model ● Vectors and MAtrices as we need to convert information into numbers as machines  understand numbers   