The first module is based on introducing Machine Learning, its real-world applications and examples. It is followed by the steps of ML, its types, algorithms used in ML, etc. It then stretches to the relation of ML with mathematics an how it is actually based on it.  Before  working  with  Python  to  implement  Machine  learning  techniques  and algoithms,  we  also  studied  some  of  the  basics  of  vectors and  matrices  which  were then manipulted with Python. This summary covers all these topics briefly.  Machine Learning  ML is a technique or a field of study in technology that is used to build the computer systems  and  programs  in  a  way  that  they  can  learn  from  the  data  fed  to  them  by analysing patterns and making predictions. The concept behind that inolves training the models with a lot of preparation data and the testing them with a regular frequency with a fresh piece of data to determine the efiiciency of performance.  Steps of ML  The three main steps of Machine leaning include: Data Manipulation, Analytics and visualisation,  evaluation.  Manipulation  involves  preparing  the  data  by  acquiring  it correctly in a form sensible enough for computers to work on it, cleaning it, storing it in  correct  formats.  This  is  followed  by  analytics,  where  we  are  supposed  to  make different interpretations about the data by looking for correlations and connections in it. The last step involves evaluating the data, for instance, performance of a machine if the data involves its atttributes and variables. The evalution may lead to refinement depending upon the results.  Types of ML  Moving onto the techniques used to implement ML, we do it in three types: Supervised learning,  Unsupervised  learning  and  Reinforcement  learning.  The  majorly  used supervised learning is a tchnique where we feed labelled data to the machine as the training data and let it give the outputs based on it. In this case we can map those outputs as we already have the results.The two types of supervised learning problems are: classfification and regression. On the other hand, in case of unsupervised learning, the training data has no labels, so the algorithms are meant to figure out the meaning of  the  data  and  make  sense  out  of  it.  The  types  of  unsupervised  learning  problem solvin  gtechniques  include  clustering,  and  factor  analysis.  The  thrid  type  is reinforcement learning. This is very popular and unique type that is based on training the machine to learn from its actions. It makes a move based on the previous and if it does not work out, it uses a different action in the next training. Its like the gaming AI’a used nowadays like AlphaGO that play based on a strategy that the machine develops by playing thousands or millions of games while it was being trained. Now, choosing which model to implement is another challenge and may come with some problems itself, but it might be clear in many circumstances about what to choose.  Mathematics in ML  It is necessary to understand the basic mathematical functionality that defines every decision,  iteration  and  output  produced  by  ML  and  it  basically  includes,  vectors, matrices, probability and different packages of Python.  As we know that ML uses a lot of data, infact data is major reason why we need ML, we should also know that most of this data is stored in different data instances, which are caled vectors. We use feature vectors in ML, because they are the ones that can map real-world data to numbers, for example, bag of words representation with python. Now,  vectors  are  one-dimensional  structures,  so  to  cater  more  types/  variables/ atttributes in a dataset, we use matrices, which are 2-dimensional data structures used to apply various calculations and aggregations on the set of data stored as a matrix. Various  applications  on  matrices  include  addition,  subtraction,  multiplication,  dot product, transpose, inverse, determinant, etc. All of this has been covered with details and examples in the module content.  Python in ML  The module covers some basic python programming for beginners starting with the data types, iterations, conditionals,and fucntions. It is then followed by the modules and  packages  that  we  will  be  using.  First  one  being  numpy,  it  has  many  functions, methods  and  classes  to  play  with  variables,  vectors  an  matrices.  So,  we  will  be applying the python functions to implement the mathematical functions in ML.  