   Real-world applications of Machine Learning (ML)   Definitions of ML   Types of ML  o  Unsupervised learning o  Supervised learning  §  Linear models §  Nonlinear models   Model assessment and selection  Topic 1  Real-world applications of Machine Learning (ML)  Definitions of ML  Types of ML  Model assessment and selection  Unsupervised learning  Supervised learning  Linear models  Nonlinear models    Real-world applications of Machine Learning (ML)  Machine learning is being applied in various fields to solve complex problems. Some of the real-world applications of machine learning include robotics, computer vision, board games, voice recognition, digit recognition, healthcare analytics, stock market prediction, business analytics, and facial recognition.    Step in ML:  Data Collection; Clean and Prepare data; Train or Build Model; Evaluate the model; Improve/ Deploy    Unsupervised learning：  Unsupervised learning involves finding the underlying structure of an unlabelled dataset. The goal is to enable a machine algorithm to learn from large sets of data without additional information. Popular approaches in unsupervised learning include clustering (similarity- based), density estimation, and factor analysis. Clustering involves grouping similar points together to find relative similarities and underlying patterns or different groups within the dataset. Clustering can be useful for tasks such as information retrieval, data compression, anomaly detection, and data visualization.     Supervised learning：  Supervised learning involves learning a function or model from data to relate inputs to known outputs. The datasets used in supervised learning have built-in relationships, making it possible to train the algorithm. To train the algorithm, the available data is divided into training and evaluation data, with most of the data used to develop and train the model. The evaluation data is used to test the model with fresh, unused input data. There are two types of supervised learning: classification problems, where decision boundaries partition data space into two sets representing each class, and regression problems, where the goal is to examine the relationship between response variables and one or more predictor variables.    Model assessment and selection is a crucial step in machine learning. Model evaluation  involves testing the accuracy of the model on test data with known labels to approximate the accuracy of predictions on future data. This requires randomly splitting the dataset into training and test data, training the model on the training data, and evaluating its accuracy on the test data. Model selection is the process of finding the best fit model among many possible models, which can be challenging. Techniques for model selection include evaluating averaged scores on random test datasets and cross- validation. The selection of models directly impacts the quality of the output. Iteration is often necessary to refine the model and make useful predictions.  