Lesson Review Topic 1: Introduction to Machine Learning  A set of instructions is referred to as an Algorithm. In simple words, set of tools to derive meaning from data is defined as Machine Learning (ML). Mathematically, it is also defined as the computer’s ability to learn only when performance improves with experience (could be the data we provide to machine to process). When dealing with too much data to produce useful information, ML comes handy. To learn how to perform tasks, machine learning involves the use of computer algorithms. Robotics, facial recognition, business analytics, stock market prediction – are few of the examples of application of machine learning.  Data Manipulation(comprises of Data Acquisition, Data Storage & Data Cleaning), Analytics(comprises of Finding Relationships and Correlations, Exploratory Data Analysis & Predictive Machine Learning), Evaluation and Visualization(Refinement) are the three stages of Machine Learning, respectively.  Supervised Learning, defined as learning a function(model) from data to relate inputs to known outputs is used by majority of practical ML. Supervised Learning is trained, requiring dividing the available data into training data and evaluation data. There are two types of Supervised Learning – Classification problems and Regression problems. Decision boundaries are used in classification problems that partitions data sets into two sets, whereas in regression, the overall idea is to examine (in a form of hyperplane) the relationship between response variables and one or more predictor variables. Information retrieval, data compression, anomaly detection, data understanding and visualization are the potential tasks for ML Unsupervised Learning for which it uses the techniques- clustering and factor analysis.  Reinforcement Learning is another important type of ML, wherein an agent learns how to behave in an environment by performing actions and learning from interactions. Eg- Chess. There is no simple way to select a model which will work the best. It has to be tried to get the best and chosen results as it affects the quality of output. Over-fitting occurs when while designing a model to suit the training dataset can result in poor performance on evaluation or new data.  ML is based on math. Vectors are a fundamental element of linear algebra and mathematics. Data instance is represented by a feature vector. Computation on data objects (text documents, images, audio files) can be performed using their vector representation. Vector is a series of related numbers, which has both magnitude and direction. Transpose, Add, Inner product are the three main operations in vector. For information retrieval Cosine Similarity function is useful. Matrix algebra and its various operations are extremely useful in ML. Vector space model is the representation of a set of documents as vectors.  Some basic features of Python programming are – interpreted: processed at runtime; interactive: use Python prompt; object oriented: encapsulate code in objects. Suitable language for beginners; easy to learn: few keywords, simple structure, clear syntax; easy to read and maintain; broad standard library: portable across UNIX, Windows and Mac; support for major databases; support for GUI Programming. Variables are containers. Lists can contain values of different types. Tuples are like list but items can’t be changed after initiated. In dictionary, each element is like a key-value pair. Slicing in used in strings(used to store text). Indentation is essential. Iterations are done using for and while loop. Functions and anonymous functions store blocks of code to be called by name.  There exists two main libraries –  NumPy – for vectors, matrices, random numbers and linear algebra functions and Matplotlib – for plotting. Also learnt matrix operations like addition, subtraction, division, multiplication, transpose, inversion, slicing etc.  