  In this topic’s lesson, we covered off some of the basics around machine learning and the relevant skill we need to get up to speed.  We first work through the unit information and the Unit learning goals:  ▪  Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of fundamental concepts of machine learning  methods and their application in solving real-world problems.  ▪  Explain different design decisions that need to be taken to build machine learning based  solutions.  ▪  Analyse, evaluate and compare the quality (generalisation, performance etc.) of machine  learning based solutions that are designed for a specific problem.  ▪  Effectively communicate the design, development, and performance of a machine learning  model to technical and non-technical audiences.  I am already familiar with Python which is a key language used throughout this unit. I am also familiar with algorithms and the terminology as I have completed SIT 221 Data structures and Algorithms and SIT 320 Advanced algorithms.  The definition of machine learning, we look at how this is different from a simple computer program?  It is essentially a field of study that gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed. It is a set of tools to derive meaning from data.  As an equation:  “A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if its performance at tasks in T , as measured by P, improves with experience E”  The main reason we need ML is because the level of data or the amount of data available to us has increased so much we need new ways to analyse and work with this data.  Its also worth noting that Machine learning is a subset of AI.  In my on definition, I would say Machine learning is a subset of AI that allows software or programs to become more accurate at predicting outcomes without being explicitly programmed to do so.  Next in the lesson we look at some of the real-world applications of machine learning, such as Robotics, computer vision, digit recognition, business analytics, stock market prediction and even board games. Alpha go one example of a board game AI, makes use of both machine learning to improve the outcomes and a Neural network AI. Machine learning and other types of AI can compliment each other very well.  Another example of machine learning can be seen in facial recognition software.  Steps in Machine learning :  The majority of practical ML makes use of supervised learning,  Supervised learning is machine learning approach that defined by its use of labeled data sets. These data sets are designed to train or supervise algorithms into classifying data or predicting outcomes.  The two types of supervised learning are classification and regression.  Unsupervised learning uses machine learning algorithms to analyze and cluster unlabeled data sets. The three main types of unsupervised learning are clustering, association, and dimensionality reduction. We have seen this in SIT112 Data Science unit.  To determine the best one to use you look at evaluating your input data, is it labeled or unlabeled data. Define your goals, do you have recurring well defined problems to solve or will the algorithm need to predict new problems and finally Review your options for algorithms.  An example of unsupervised learning in the real world is in Biology for genetic and species grouping we use clustering.  Next we touch on Reinforcement learning which I have also worked on before in SIT215.  RL works by an agent learning how to behave in an environment by performing actions and learning by its choices.  In this lesson we touch on the types of maths behind the ML process.  Some of the key areas we need are :    Vectors and basic vector operations  Matrices and matrix operations  Basic concept of probability  Python.  The main vector operations are Transpose, Add and inner product.  Matrices are also a fundamental element of linear algebra and are used heavily in machine learning.  We then watch the Khan Academy introduction and read about Eigen Values and Eigen Vectors.  We then move on to setting up Python and writing some basic code. I have Anaconda setup, Juypter notebooks and Google collab depending on how I want to work and what I am working on.  For the basic Python tasks in this unit, I used google collab to write the code out.  We cover off basics like variables, branching statements and loops and functions in the lesson.  We also look at packages in Python which are a key component to many python programs, they give a set up of predefined functions that we can work with to save rewriting everything from the ground up.  We then touch on Numpy which is a very useful package we can use in Python to perform an array of tasks on vectors and arrays.  