This topic’s unit content provided an overview of machine learning as well as reviewed some essential and expected knowledge, matrix mathematics, and Python libraries.  Machine Learning, like regular learning is the process of gathering information, analyse the information and producing and output. The generic steps that define the Machine Learning process are collecting data, clean and prepare the data, train or build the model, evaluate the model and improve, deploy. Machine learning is useful for finding patterns in data.  Machine Learning can be broken down into two main categories, supervised learning and unsupervised learning. Supervised learning is used when the data has labels, and generally used to classify inputs into known groups using classification and regression. Unsupervised learning is used when the data has no labels, in this case clustering and dimensionality reduction are used to identify useful information from the data. Unsupervised learning is used for anomaly detection, information retrieval, and data reduction.  The unit’s content also covered mathematics, specifically vector and matrix mathematics because machine Learning is underpinned by vectors. Information about an element is represented by a vector with multiple attributes that describe each feature. Data regardless of its input type, (audio/images/time series, always needs to be in or converted to numerical values because that is all that machines understand.  Vector operations such as, transpose, addition, inner product are used to manipulate vectors to combine and compare data to find insights about the data. A collection of vectors creates a Matrix, a multi-dimensional array of dimensions m x n. Matrices are commonly used to analyse datasets.  Matrix operations such as transpose, addition, scalar multiplication, element wise multiplication and matrix multiplication are used to manipulate matrices to obtain insightful information from the raw data. In addition to operations there a several types of matrices with different properties that provide different features, such as square, rectangular, diagonal, symmetric, inverse and identify matrices. The symmetrical matrix for example is a square matric where all the values are mirrored across the diagonal (top left to bottom right), for this matrix the original matrix and it’s transpose matrix are equal.  There are a number of ways to compare the values of vectors, magnitude of length of vectors, Euclidean distance, cosine similarly, and cosine distance.  Lastly, the unit introduced Python and the Numpy library, providing examples of conceptual and mathematical concepts explained in the earlier sections. For example, Matrix multiplication.  