Machine learning is a study that give the ability to our machine to work independently. It includes robots, AI is major example of machine learning. Examples of machine learning in our daily life are robots, AI, Email directing, stock price predictors, facial recognition, voice recognition and many more. ML gives the machine space to thing himself and analyze the situation and take decisions as a human would take or the best possible solution. In modern world most of out work is done by machines. We are depended on machine in many ways. Most of scholars says that in coming era most of employment is going to take over by robotics.  There are few steps in ML.    Data manipulation   Data cleaning   Training   Analytics   Visualization  Data manipulation is taking the data in form of numeric that computers can understand. The data that make sense. For instance, human i.e, a person has two arms, two legs, one nose etc.  Analytics include finding the relation between the prepared data in order to design a accurate model which is based on the input data. In the end, the last step is visualization, its main purpose is to cross check whether we used the right model based on our assumptions.  The data could be of any type.    Text   Voice  Images   Videos   Maps   Graphs   Signals  In ML we are trying to understand the pattern.  Main algorithms of ML:  1.  Supervised learning 2.  Unsupervised learning 3.  Reinforcement learning  Supervised learning:    In supervised learning we are dealing with labeled data. The data that has label on it. For instance, a excel sheet for payroll of employees, with their names and company ID. Furthermore, supervised learning is further divided into two types:    Classification: it’s a process where the algorithm is trained to predict a discrete output  variable such as label or category.    Regression: it is a process where algorithm is trained to predict a continuous output  variable based on input features.  Unsupervised learning:  In unsupervised learning we are not sure what the data is about. The data that is not labeled. For instance, if company gives you data which is not mentioned that whether it is data about their payroll, or name or company ID’s. so, in this case we are going to use unsupervised algorithms.  Common examples of unsupervised learning are:    Clustering: clustering is a process of grouping data that are similar to each other. The algorithm does not have any prior knowledge about the data, so it groups the data based on their similarities.    Dimensionality reduction: it is a process of reducing the number of features in a  dataset while retaining most of information. It is used to visualize high- dimensional data, reduce noise in data and to speed up other machine learning algorithms.   Anomaly detection: it is the process of identifying data points that deviate from the  normal behavior of the system.  Model assessment and adjustment:  Model assessment and adjustment is considered to be an essential component of machine learning. After training a model, it is necessary to evaluate its performance and adjust its parameter to improve its accuracy and generalization performance. Its key steps are:    Splitting dataset: the first step is to split the dataset into training set and a test set. The training set is used to train the model, the test set is used to evaluate its performance.    Evaluating the model: there are several metrics for evaluating the performance of a  machine learning model, depending on the type of problem.    Adjusting the model: once the model’s performance has been evaluated, it may be necessary to adjust its parameter to improve its accuracy. This process is called hyperparameter tuning, and it involves changing the values of parameters such as learning rate, number of hidden layers etc    Cross- validation: it’s a technique for evaluating the performance of a ML model by  dividing the dataset into multiple folds and using each fold as a test set    Regularization: it’s a technique for preventing overfitting by adding a penalty term to  the loss function.      Ensemble methods: this is a technique for combining multiple models to improve  their accuracy.  Mathematics is really important in ML. most of our data is in form of math’s in ML. so we use vectors, probability and matrices.  In this topic I covered many concepts for vectors and matrices basic.  