Summary and Reflection of Topic 1: Introduction to Machine Learning  Decision making models can be related to machine learning and broken down into three steps:    First step: Data manipulation: involving the acquisition (considerations around reliable sample sizes of real-world information and ability to convert into digital numeric values), storage and cleaning of data (i.e. trimming of redundant, noisy or unusual parts, dealing with missing parts etc.) to ensure that it is fit for machine learning.    Second step: Analytics is centered on finding relationships (correlations), exploratory data analysis, i.e. summarizing main characteristics and features via visual illustrations such as graphs, charts and tables and predictive analytics, i.e. statistical techniques such as predictive modelling in order to build a classified / intelligent system for decision making.    Third step: An evaluation and visualization of the model / dataset whereby its quality and performance  is assessed and refinement procedures.  Machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) are two different areas of computing which are connected. AI is centered on mimicking the human mind, needs learning capabilities, but it is more than just learning – it involves knowledge representation and reasoning and abstract thinking. ML on the other hand is more closely related to data mining and statistics than AI. If you are writing software that can learn from past experience, if it can improve how it performs a certain task then it has learnt.  ML involves questions of the data whereby a set of attribute values is passed via the model leading to an outcome of a discrete label (classification) or a real valued number (regression).  Classification: Recognizing and categorize (visual and measurement data) from a data set.  Prediction (regression): Guess or predict the value based on an input (based on previous values).  ML can be broken down into 3 categories:  Supervised – supervised learning is trained (i.e. you guide the process of learning), meaning that datasets have built in relationships from the start and involve training an algorithm. The machine learns using the known relationship in the data.  That is, the data set is divided into a “training” and “evaluation” set. The training set is used to develop the function ‘model’ versus the ‘evaluation set is used the test the model with fresh, unused input data.  Unsupervised – involve data sets which have no labels and hence finding the underlying structure of a dataset which is unlabeled (i.e. unguided learning). That is learning from very large sets of data without additional information  about the  dat.  i.e finding  patterns and relationship, making sense of the data  and making  decisions  /  predictions.  Popular  approaches  include  clustering,  that  is  the  process  of  grouping similar points together (based on similarities and correlations).  Reinforcement – training data is not labeled but the outcome is graded.  Machine learning itself can be broken down into 7 steps  1)  Gathering the data 2)  Preparing the data 3)  Choosing a model 4)  Training 5)  Evaluation 6)  Hyperparameter Tuning 7)  Prediction   Evaluation techniques include assessments of accuracy, precision and recall. For this purpose, a confusion matrix is used.  Machine  learning  includes  certain  areas  of  mathematics  including  vectors  and  basic  vector  operations, matrices  and  matrix  operations,  basic  concepts  of  probability  and  Python  programming  using  different modules and packaged.  Vectors  Most  of  the  time  a  data  instance  is  represented  by  a  vector,  i.e.  a  feature  vector.  This  includes  text documents, images, audio files etc. Computation on these is performed using their vector representation.  Vector = has both magnitude and direction but is really a series of related numbers. For ML = role is about relationships between data objects.  The 3 main operations on vectors are transpose, add and inner product. We are also able to compute the magnitude of a vector or its length geometrically. Distances between vectors are based on measures such as the cosine similarity whereas differences between vectors are based on cosine distance.  Matrix algebra  Most of the machine learning methods deal with matrix operations for which the two main features is the number of rows and number of columns.    Adding and subtraction of matrices is possible if they are of the same size with the elements of the  corresponding positions being the total.    Scalar multiplication / division – is performed by multiplying each element of a matrix by the scalar “a”.   Element wise matrix multiplication – you can multiply any two matrices element-wise if they have the  same size.    Matrix multiplication – you can multiply any two matrices if the number of columns in the first matrix is  equal to the number of rows in the second matrix.   A matrix can be a square matrix or a rectangular matrix   A matrix and be a diagonal and an identify matrix  The  representation  of  a  set  of  documents  as  vector  is  known  as  the  vector  space  model  which  is fundamental in information retrieval operations. We can use concepts such as the Euclidean distance to find the distance between the documents – i.e. closeness of the documents.  Python coding    Variable name in Python can contain letters and numbers and there is no need to explicitly define the  type of variable.    Lists can contain values of different types and list indexing starts from – and ends with -1. The index of  -1 representing the last element.    Dictionaries are similar to lists except that each element is a key-value pair.   Strings are use dot store text   Slicing techniques are use to extract a part of a list/string using the syntax [start: stop]   Two essential elements of coding are indentation and conditions (decision).  That is Python code blocks are  defined  by  their  indentation  level.  The  Python  syntax  for  conditional  execution  of  code  use  the keywords if, elif, (else if), and else.    Loops  or  iterations  can  be  programmed  using  for  and  while.  The  for-loop  is  used  to  iterate  through  Python objects like lists, arrays and tuples.   Functions store a block of code so you can call them by name. A function in Python is defined using the keyword def, followed by the function name and function arguments with parentheses (), and ends with a colon. It is possible to define a function that gives back an anonymous function.  The NumPy library is used for vectors, matrices, random numbers and linear algebra functions whereas matplotlib  is  used  for  plotting.  Matrix  addition  is  subtraction  is  relatively  straightforward  however  matrix multiplication  is  only  possible  when  the  column  in  the  first  operand  is  equal  to  the  rows  of  the  second operand. Matrices can also be inverted and transposed (i.e. whereby we switch the rows and column of a matrices in order to divide or multiply it).  The  above  summary  has  been  created  using  the  full  course  material  for  Topic  1  (including  the relevant YouTube clips).     