 1) What is machine learning  It is the process of machine how they are able to predict output values through existing data as input and extremely useful in terms of processing a large amount of data. Machine learning observes the pattern of change in data and analyse them. It is not only contributing to advance our lives but also being seen in our daily life. Use case of machine learning includes fraud detection, spam filtering, malware threat detection, business process automation (BPA) and Predictive maintenance. [1] Also, services like chatbot, virtual assistance, voice recognition are popular examples.  2) Machine learning steps  Data manipulation : After collecting data, they can be sorted in alphabetical or numeric manner to make process easier  -> Analytics : Analyse the data, exploratory data analysis and predictive machine learning  -> Evaluation and visualisation  3) Supervised learning vs Unsupervised learning  Supervised learning  Unsupervised learning  Input data is labelled Regression Classification Used for prediction Algorithms: decision trees, logistic regressions, support vector machine  Input data is unlabelled Clustering Association Used for analysis Algorithms: k-means clustering, hierarchical clustering  Table 1 [2]  4) Reinforcement learning : an algorithm achieved by interaction between computer and environment by learning how to act. One of the use case is Netflix’s recommendation list optimized for users which is called “shuffle play” in smart TV. [3] [4]  5) Model evaluation vs training  Training involves input data to train the program to produce output for prediction by analysing the pattern change in dataset  and evaluation is the process of testing the model to validate its performance. Evaluation methods include confusion matrix, accuracy, precision, recall, specificity, F1 score, precision-recall or PR curve, Receiver operating characteristics curve [5]  6) Vector in machine learning  Vectors are built from components, which are ordinary numbers. You can think of a vector as a list of numbers, and vector algebra as operations performed on the numbers in the list. [6]  Three main operations in vectors    Transpose : swap the rows and columns  Image from https://www.mathsisfun.com/definitions/transpose-matrix-.html    Add : add the variables in the matching positions(the size of matrix should be matched)   Inner product: also known as dot product. When applying the inner product to two vectors, they need to be same size  Image from https://datahacker.rs/dot-product-inner-product/#id3  7) Mathematics  Basic definition and concept of vectors, matrix algebra, vector space model    Scalors : a number like 3,-6,0.234 etc   Vectors: a list of numbers (either row or column)    Matrices : an array of numbers(one/more rows and columns) [7]  Image from https://www.mathsisfun.com/algebra/scalar-vector-matrix.html  8) Python  It is a programming language and easy to use with its simplicity, integrity, flexibility and offers a variety of library. We covered installing program and essential library for the machine learning  2. Provide summary of your reading list – external resources, websites, book  chapters, code libraries, etc.  1)  Algebra tutorial Variables (bolster.academy)  2)  Introduction to matrices Algebra - Introduction to Matrices - DeakinAir 3)  Multiplication of matrices Algebra - Multiplication of Matrices - DeakinAir 4)  Solving Simultaneous linear and quadratic equations  Algebra - Solving Simultaneous Linear  and Quadratic Equations - DeakinAir  5)  Practical machine learning for data analysis using python(Ebook)  ProQuest Ebook Central - Reader (deakin.edu.au) Ch1 Introduction, Ch2 Data preprocessing  6)  How to install numpy python - how to install numpy? - Stack Overflow 7)  Libraries in python Libraries in Python - GeeksforGeeks 8)  Video – What is machine learning? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WXHM_i-  fgGo&embeds_euri=https%3A%2F%2Fd2l.deakin.edu.au%2F&source_ve_path=MjM4NTE&f eature=emb_title  3. Reflect on the knowledge that you have gained by reading contents of this  topic with respect to machine learning.  1)  Python  How to install python3 and anaconda: I downloaded the programs however, it seems like some error in my laptop and still finding out what’s the issue. At the moment, I’m using Google colab to catch up with the class materials but will sort out this installing issue  I explored a list of python library and numpy with its use cases in machine learning  2)  Machine learning concept and real world examples  Have had an interest in machine learning due to AI-based tools such as ChatGPT and Jasper. During research, I found that many other companies are also using a wide range of machine learning methods including Netflix for creating recommended lists and Youtube for enhancing its advertising algorithm, etc. And it would be great to explore more about practical examples especially services we use everyday.  3)  Mathematics  I found myself having lack of basic mathematics so started from easy ones with algebra and plan to develop mathematical thinking along the learning journey  4. Attempt the quiz given in topicly content (1.28) and add screenshot of  your score (³85% is considered completion of the task) in this report.  