Machine Learning  Machine Learning : A machine can be said to learn if it can perform tasks on the  informations you supply, and react to the data to get closer to a useful result over  time.  ML will learn from data we give them and respond to changes in the data they are  given to produce useful results.  Real world applications of ML.  1.  2.  3.  4.  5.  Robotics.  Computer Vision.  Board games.  Voice recognition.  Facial recognition.  Machine Learning Steps.  1.  Data Manipulation : It consists of two parts,  a. Data acquisition - process of collecting useful relevant data that can be converted into numerical values for the computers to understand.  b. Data cleaning - Removing the unusable parts of the data and getting rid of redundant and noisy parts of the data.  2.  Analytics : In this stage we find relationships and correlations in the prepared  data. We do this by performing Exploratory Data Analysis to summarise the main characteristics of the data. Post this, we perform Predictive Machine Learning to create a suitable ML model to perform the task at hand.  3.  Evaluation and Visualisation : In this step we check whether the created ML model provides the satisfactory outcome. If not we will have to go through another round of Data Manipulation and Analytics until we get a satisfactory result.  Supervised learning.  In this approach, the machine is trained on input data that has been labeled for a specific output. The model is trained until it can detect underlying  patterns and relationships between the input data and the output labels.  There are two popular types of supervised learnings.  1.  Classification problems : Here the model is trained to sort inputs into a  given number of categories.  2.  Regression problems : Here the model is trained to produce a numerical  relationship between the input and output data.  Unsupervised learning.  In this approach, the machine is trained on unlabelled data and allowed to act  on the data without any supervision.  Clustering is a popular approach in unsupervised learning. In this process,  unlabelled data is divided into clusters wherein objects in one cluster share  similar properties.  Reinforcement learning.  This method is based on rewarding desired behaviours and/or punishing  undesired ones. Here the model is able to behave in an environment, take actions and learn through trial and error.  Model Evaluation.  Once we create a ML model it is important to check if the model is performing as per the requirements. This is performed by the following steps.  1.  2.  3.  4.  5.  Splitting the dataset into a training and test dataset. Use the training dataset to learn a model. Check the accuracy of the prediction using the test dataset. Repeat it for different random splits and average the results. Iterate the process until the model makes useful predictions.  Model Selection.  Two most effective ways in which this is done are as follows:  1.  2.  check the average of evaluation scores on many random test datasets.  train using one dataset and perform testing on another dataset, this is called cross-validation.    