Programming  Programming is a method of providing a set of instructions to a computer so that they can be executed.  These may also be called an algorithm. The algorithm will take input, perform some speciﬁed steps on the  input and generate an output.  Python3 is one language in which instructions can be provided to a computer.  Machine Learning Deﬁnition  Machine learning is the concept of programming computers to learn how to execute tasks without  providing them an explicit algorithm.  Machine learning can be used to derive meaning from data. If a computer program 'practices' a task on a  set of data and it improves its performance at that task then it can be considered learning. This process is  analogous to humans identifying patterns in data, and using these to draw conclusions about its meaning.  Machine learning provides a tool which can be used to help analyse data sets that are too large for humans  in order to produce useful information.  Machine Learning Applications  There are many applications in which machine learning is likely to oﬀer beneﬁts. These typically involve  scenarios where a program would be very complex, and need to vary between deployments. By using  machine learning approaches, then program can learn from its environment in order to improve its  performance. A particularly compelling example of this is the application of machine learning to robotic  prosthetic limbs in order to provide per person parameter tuning - something that is diﬃcult to achieve for  each potential deployment. This allows for more eﬃcient tuning of the prosthetic limbs, and therefore  broader deployment, or a better outcome given available ﬁtment time (reading 2 provided additional  information for lower leg prosthetics).  Machine learning has broader applications to help robots improve performance in their deployed  environment, improve computer vision, text and speech recognition to allow computers to better  understand their environment, and allowing computers to out-perform humans at board games (early  approach discussed in reading 1).  Machine Learning Steps  Machine learning requires three high level steps:  1. Data Manipulation. This is the process by which data is prepared for consumption by the program.  Data is ﬁrst acquired through the use of sensors, the converted into a numeric format suitable for  computers, then cleaned to ensure that noisy data is not used to train a model.  2. Analytics. This step designs a model based on relationships and correlations identiﬁed in the input  data. It may also include Exploratory Data Analysis such as data visualisation to help ﬁnd these  trends. The result of the analytics step is a model which can be evaluated against our desired  outcomes.  3. Evaluation and Visualisation This step evaluates the performance of the model generated in the  analytics stage, and reﬁnes it to ensure that it performs to the required level.  Machine Learning Types  Supervised Learning. Supervised learning is an approach to machine learning where the output of a given  input is known. This allows a model to be trained to produce the correct output. From the total set of data,  a portion is used to train the model, and the remainder is used to verify the model is performing correctly.  There are two types of supervised learning problems. The ﬁrst is a classiﬁcation problem which seeks to  determine a label for the input data. For instance, classifying an object in an image. The second is a  regression problem which seeks to predict a numerical quantity based on the input data. For example, the  number of travellers using a given public transport route at some future time.  Unsupervised Learning. Unsupervised learning is an approach to understand data where the outcome is  not known. The approach seeks to learn relationships and patterns internal to the data set which provide  useful information. One approach to unsupervised learning is clustering which tries to group similar data  points to ﬁnd similarities. An example of an unsupervised learning problem is the Netﬂix user movie rating  prediction competition where teams used unsupervised learning approaches on data historical user movie  rating data to predict the rating a user would give a future movie to inform movie recommendations.  Reinforcement Learning. Reinforcement learning uses a system where a model is allowed to produce a  result then rewarded based on the quality of that result. This allows the model to try diﬀerent approaches  and determine their success by the reward received. One common mechanism to implement reinforcement  learning is to use a points system that the model is trying to optimise. If the model produces a result that  doesn't receive points, then it knows that the actions that produced that result are unlikely to oﬀer value.  An example of this approach is training a model to play a computer game such as driving a car without  touching a wall. The time before a wall is touched can be used as the points system, and the model can seek  to maximise this result.  Model Evaluation and Selection  Model evaluation is the process of analysing the performance of a model. It is typically achieved by dividing  training data into two sets. The ﬁrst set is used to train a model, and the second set is used to evaluate its  performance against the expects results. This process can be repeated a number of times with input data  randomly assigned to the training and data sets to allow the result to be averaged across a range of  diﬀerent data. Model selection is the process of selecting the best model to use to achieve the intended  purpose. Model evaluation and selection must be cautious to avoid 'over-ﬁtting' the model to the data. This  means that the model has included noise in the data set when generating its results, and won't be accurate  for future data. One example of 'over-ﬁtting' is a model trained to recognise military vehicles being trained  on data where photos of enemy vehicles tended to be blurry, and including blurriness of image as an  indicator of an enemy vehicle.  Vectors  Vectors are a series of related numbers that describe relationships between data objects. Vector  operations are transpose, add, and inner product.  Transpose rearranges a vector from a column to a row whilst retaining relative element order.  Add sums two vectors element wise to produce a third with the same shape.  Inner product is the sum of the element wise product of two vectors. A vector magnitude is the  square route of the sum of each element squared, and also known as the 2-norm of a vector.  The cosine similarity between two vectors is the angle between the vectors. The cosine distance is 1 -  (cosine similarity). As follows:  Matrices  Matrices are regularly used in a machine learning. A Matrix consists of a series of columns and rows each  containing an element. Rows are known as row vectors and columns are known as column vectors. The  following operations are available:  Addition/Subtraction. element wise addition or subtraction to produce matrix of same shape.  Scalar Multiplication/Division. A single number that multiplies/divides each element of the matrix to  produce matrix of same shape.  Element wise matrix multiplication. Each element is multiplied with the corresponding element to  produce matrix of same shape.  Square matrix has same number of rows and columns, otherwise rectangular  Transpose maps each element in row[n] to same position in column[n]. That is, A(i,j) = B(j,i)  Symmetric matrix is equal to its transpose.  Diagonal matrix is A(i,j) = 0 where i != j.  Identity matrix is a diagonal with all elements where i == j equal to 1. Often denoted as I  Matrix A is inverse of B is AB == I. Another way: A = B^(-1)  Orthogonal matrix is where the transpose of a matrix is equal to its inverse  