Summary Machine learning is about turning raw data into useful predictions through learning from experience. By improving its performance, the machine is learning. This learning process is defined through an algorithm – a set of instructions the machine follows, and the experience begins with a provided dataset. Machine learning comes in several forms – supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning.  Supervised learning is trained, that is given pre-labelled data with known relationships and outcomes. The algorithm is trained to reach a desired outcome by splitting datasets into training and evaluation data. The training data is used to teach the algorithm and the evaluation data is used to test its accuracy. This type of learning is used for classification and regression problems.  Unsupervised learning is given unlabelled data. The goal is to determine what relationships and correlations exist, with only the raw data to go by. This type of learning cannot be trained, it simply explores the data itself to find the patterns. This can be achieved with techniques such as clustering and factor analysis. Unsupervised learning is used for data compression, anomaly detection, information retrieval, understanding and visualizing data.  In Reinforcement Learning a learning agent is placed in an environment with set states and possible actions. The agent’s task is to reach a desired state, the specifics of which depend on the environment. The agent receives an award or punishment based on its action, but has no actual knowledge of the desired outcome. Instead the agent is chasing the highest reward. The agent updates its reward dataset through exploring the system and over time learns which actions from which states will ultimately reach the highest reward. Eventually it will accurately reach the desired state in the optimal way. Reinforcement learning is used for solving games, puzzle solving, self- driving cars and traffic light control, etcetera.  Machine learning can be used in many areas, including robotics, voice and facial recognition, letter and number recognition, board games, health analytics, predictions, etcetera.  The ML flow is:  ➢  Data Manipulation, Analytics, Evaluation and Visualization  Data manipulation is about acquiring, storing, and cleaning data. Acquiring and storing data is self- explanatory, but cleaning data is more complex. Data cleaning includes removing unreliable or redundant data, finding ways to deal with missing data points with adding bias to the data set.  Data Analytics is where the relationships and correlations of the dataset are found and used to build a model. This step includes data aggregation and predictive learning to build a model.  Evaluation and visualisation determine if the model is valid by performing predictions and determining their accuracy. Inaccurate models require refinement, which goes back to the data manipulation stage. Model selection is complex and requires evaluation. Model evaluation requires a test dataset to compare the model’s predictions to. Evaluation can run the risk of over-fitting, where the model perfectly matches the provided dataset but fails on new data due to too much fine-tuning. Evaluation and selection can be done with methods such as cross-validation and average random evaluation.  Machine Learning revolves around statistics and mathematics. Computers cannot process qualitative data, only numeric. Data instances (a single “case” in a dataset” can be represented by a column vector. A column vector is just single column of a matrix, so an entire dataset can be represented by joining the vectors together into a matrix.  Feature vectors have three main operations: transpose, add, and inner product. Vectors also have the properties of magnitude and P-Norms, where the magnitude of a vector is the 2-Norm. Vectors can have a distance from each other found with techniques such as the Euclidean distance or cosine distance. The distance is important because it represents the dissimilarity of two data instances – how different they are from each other.  Matrices work similarly to vectors. They have functions such as adding, scaler multiplication, transposition. Two same-size matrices can be multiplied element-wise, and two matrices where the first’s column size is equal to the second’s row-size can be multiplied matrix-to-matrix.  Reflection As this topic was effectively revision of introductory concepts I did not need to branch out far for resources. I simply used the module material, lecture, and some module material from the unit SIT112 which I had completed prior to this unit. I also used the book “Discrete Mathematics and its Applications” (Rosen) to brush up on matrix and vector operations.  I think the core takeaway from this topic’s material is that machine learning is more akin to statistics than artificial intelligence. It’s essentially about learning from existing data to form (or validate) models of real-world systems in ways that humans simply cannot achieve due to the sheer amount of data that exists in the modern world.  