Reflection and summary of Topic 1    Machine learning is a field of artificial intelligence that uses machines to mimic intelligent   human behavior. Machine learning can be supervised or unsupervised. It is used on robotics, computer vision, computerized board games and voice, digit, and image recognition.    The key steps in machine learning are:  o  Data Manipulation - acquisition and cleaning of data) o  Analytics - find relationships and correlations, exploratory data analysis and predictive machine learning.  o  Evaluation and Visualization – evaluate performance and refine the model.    Supervised learning is trained and relies on known relationships within the data. A model is trained with most of the data set where outcomes are known, it is then tested on the remaining portion of the data set to see how well it can predict outcomes.    Classification problems (to predict labels e.g. fraud, not fraud) and regression problems (to examine relationships between response and predictor variables) are both types of supervised learning    Unsupervised learning works with unlabeled data to find hidden patterns or groupings without human assistance.    Clustering (for grouping data by common traits) and factor analysis (used for dimension reduction) are both types of unsupervised learning.    Model evaluation is a critical step in machine learning because this process tells you how well your model is functioning.    A confusion matrix is a useful tool in model evaluation for comparing predicted and actual values. It counts both correct and incorrect guesses and allows you to see how good your model is at predicting each outcome.    You need to be careful of overfitting your model which occurs when the model becomes too familiar with the training data set and is unable to apply perform well on new data.    Vectors and basic vector operations, matrices and basic matrix operations, and the basic concepts of probability are important concepts to understand when performing machine learning with Python.    The role of vectors in machine learning is about the relationships between data objects  