 a)  Defining and types of Machine Leaning    It is giving the ability to learn to computers without being explicitly programmed making it a set of tools to derive meaning from data.    The types of machine learning are:  i)  Supervised learning  ▪  Learning by providing the machine with related inputs to known outputs of data.  ▪  Data generally is divided into training and evaluation data with a general  split of 80/20.  ▪  Two types of supervised learning: Classification Problems and Regression  Problems. ii)  Unsupervised learning  ▪  Learning by providing the machine with unlabelled / uncharacterised data where it will derive meaning from.  ▪  There are 2 popular approaches: Clustering/density estimation and Factor  analysis.  iii)  Reinforcement learning (not taught in this unit)  ▪  Learning closed to human learning by performing actions and learning from interactions base on the environment it is in.  ▪  Time is a factor in this type of learning.  b)  Steps of Machine Learning   Data Manipulation  i)  Includes Data Acquisition, and Data cleaning.    Analytics  i) ii)  Involves finding relationships and correlations in prepared data. Includes Exploratory data analysis and Predictive machine learnings.    Evaluation and Visualisation  i)  Evaluate the performance of the system/model. ii)  Perform refinement to the system if model is not satisfactory.  c)  Vectors    Has Magnitude and Direction   Role in ML is about relationships between data objects   Three main operations: Transpose, add and Inner product (produce 1 output)   Distance between vectors:  i)  Cosine Similarity (Measures the angle between two vectors) ii)  Cosine Distance (measures the angular difference)  d)  Matrix algebra    Main features: number of Rows and Columns.   Operations:  i)  Addition,  Page 1 of 2      ii)  Subtraction, iii)  Scalar Multiplication, iv)  Division, v)  Elementwise Matrix Mulitplication, vi)  Matrix to Matrix Multiplication vii)  Tranpose   Types of Matrix:  i)  Symmetric Matrix ii)  Diagonal Matrix iii)  Identity Matrix iv)  Inverse of a Matrix v)  Orthogonal Matrix  