ML TOPIC_1 SUMMARY:  Algorithm:    An algorithm is a set of instructions fed to the computer to perform a particular task.  Definition:    A computer program learns using some class of task as performance increases with  experience.  Where:  Experience->data that we provide to the machine.  Performance->desired output  Why ML if we have humans?  Because human brain can’t process huge chunks of data at one time and make decisions for the same. Thus, ML is introduced which can work with gallous amount of data to generate useful results.  E.g.: Providing T-shirts to all students at Deakin.  Solution: Here we can see that knowing the shirt size of each and every student at Deakin seems a tedious job where ML comes into picture to process this data and allocate appropriate t shirt to each student.  Definition as per understanding:    ML learns from real time environment exactly same as a human being i.e. it analyses data, finds patterns and then uses those patterns to predict future outcomes/useful results/make good decisions.  Real-world applications of machine learning:  1)Robotics:    ML with the use of appropriate algorithms plays a prime role in enabling robots to  perform a varied range of activities.  SLAM: (Simultaneous localization and mapping): Required for rescuing robots  Mapping: building a map with reference to the environment the robot is in.  Localization: locating the position of the robot with respect to the map.  Why we need SLAM if we have GPS?    Slam is required in GPS denied systems. Also, in cases where GPS provides a  coarse(generalized) location SLAM provides you with grained location(precise).  E.g.: indoors, underwater GPS does not work.  2)Voice recognition using ML:    ML can be used to recognize millions of people using their stored voiceprints.  E.g.:    ATO stores millions of voice prints to identify Australians.   An Australian citizen is required to repeat the phrase “In Australia my voice identifies me “to prove their identity. Voice is compared with store voice prints which captures more than 140 physical and behavioural characteristics.    These biometrics are used to identify a person by ATO across its call centre and  mobile app.    Pros: ATO states that the technology can identify whether the voice is recorded or  live.    Cons: not 100% fool proof i.e., technology can accept a voiceprint of genetically  related relative of same ages and of same gender.  3) Image Recognition – Face-unlock feature of your smartphone    ML uses algorithms to perform pattern recognition. It has the ability to recognize any  form of visuals.    Fact: high end camera of our phone appropriately recognizes 80 nodal points on human face and uses ML algorithms to measure a variable of a person’s face to unlock the phone.  In supervised learning machines are trained using labelled (data tagged with correct output) training data. Using this data machine predicts the output.    Training data acts as a supervisor to tell machine how to predict output correctly.   Aim: to find a mapping function to map input variables with output variable.  supervised  learning  classification problems:  (classsify data )  regression problems:  (examine relationship between response  variable and predictor variables in order to generate a hyperplane representing the analysis)  UNSUPERVISED ML:  unsupervised  learning:  unlabelled data is used for predicting possible outcome using methods  clustering :  factor analysis  grouping similar points together  Reinforcement learning:    In this the machine learns to behave in an environment on the interactions produced by some set of actions.  How to evaluate a model?    Randomly split dataset into training and test dataset.   Learn using training data and evaluate on test data.   Repeat for different splits and then average out the results.   Note: look for overfitting of model while analysing the model.   Overfitting: model gives accurate predictions for training data but not for future data.  Vectors and operations:  A feature vector is used to represent a data instance in ML. A vector is used to map relationship between data objects.  