Key Learnings:    Machine  Learning  (ML)  is  different  from  a  simple  computer  program  because  it  can  learn  from experience (data) to improve its performance at specific tasks, using a performance measure. ML is a set of tools to derive meaning from data, as humans do to make decisions. ML can learn from the data we give it and produce useful results that respond to changes in the data.    The  three  main  steps  in  machine  learning  are  data  manipulation,  analytics,  and  evaluation  and visualization.  Data  manipulation  involves  preparing  and  cleaning  data  for  use  in  machine  learning algorithms.  Analytics  involves  finding  relationships  and  correlations  in  the  data  to  build  an  accurate model  using  techniques  such  as  exploratory  data  analysis  and  predictive  modelling.  The  final  step  is evaluating the model and refining it if necessary.    Supervised learning is the most used type of machine learning, which involves learning a function/model from  data  to  relate  inputs  to  known  outputs.  One  key  characteristic  of  supervised  learning  is  that relationships are built into the dataset, which makes it possible to train the algorithm. The training data is divided into training and evaluation data, with most of the data used to develop and train the model. There are two types of supervised learning: classification problems, where data is divided according to a  trained  algorithm,  and  regression  problems,  which  examine  the  relationship  between  response variables and predictor variables.    Unsupervised  learning  involves  finding  underlying  structures  and  patterns  in  unlabelled  data  sets without additional information. Clustering is a popular approach, which involves grouping similar data points together to identify similarities and correlations. Potential applications of unsupervised learning are information retrieval, data compression, anomaly detection, data understanding, and visualisation.   Evaluating  machine  learning  models  is  vital  to  ensure  accurate  predictions  on  future  test  data.  This involves randomly splitting examples into training and test datasets, using the former to learn a model, and evaluating the model using the latter. However, selecting the best fit model is a challenging task due to the many possible ways of grouping and combining data and adjusting the model's controls.   Vectors  are  fundamental  in  linear  algebra  and  are  used  to  represent  data  objects  in  ML  as  feature vectors.  Understanding  the  mathematics  behind  vectors  allows  for  better  model  selection  and manipulation of data to extract the best information.    Matrices  are  a  fundamental  element  of  linear  algebra  and  widely  used  in  machine  learning. Understanding  the  basics  of  matrix  algebra, including  matrix  addition/subtraction,  scalar multiplication/division, elementwise matrix multiplication, matrix to matrix multiplication, rectangular and square matrices, transpose of a matrix, symmetric matrices, diagonal matrices, identity matrices, inverse of a matrix, and orthogonal matrices, is essential to select the best models for a task and to manipulate data to extract the best information.    Python is a powerful language with an easy-to-use syntax and has many features and functionalities to be  classified  as  a  scripting  language.  It  is  becoming  increasingly  popular  with  major  platforms  and vendors including Google, Youtube, and Dropbox.    Python programming: printing statements, commenting, and working with different data types such as  variables, lists, tuples, and dictionaries.    The  importance  of  syntax  and  conditionals  in  coding,  particularly  in  Python.  Indentation  controls  program structure and conditionals are resolved by checking the condition of a variable.    How to use iterations or loops in Python, specifically using for-loops to iterate through Python objects  and while-loops to iterate for a fixed number of times.  The  concept  of  functions  in  Python,  including  their  syntax  and  how  to  define  and  call  them  with  arguments.    How  to  use  the  NumPy  library  to  create  vectors  and  matrices,  and  perform  common  linear  algebra  operations on them.    How  to  perform matrix addition,  subtraction, multiplication  and  division  in  Python  using the  NumPy  library.    Python code for manipulating matrices, including slicing, logical checks, and for-loops to access rows of  a matrix.       