 The first topic of this unit introduces many key concepts, as well as revising concepts learned in previous units and reviewing Python programming. Machine Learning can be differentiated from a regular computer program by its ability to learn by processing data. Machine learning is currently used in many applications throughout the world such as advertising, navigation and business analytics, and its use is only growing more prevalent.  The decision making steps involved in machine learning have similarities to real world problem solving. The first step in this process is data manipulation, in which data is acquired and cleaned to ensure accurate results. Next, the cleaned data is analysed to find possible trends and relationships, and predictions are made using this. These analyses can be presented visually to allow for easy understanding. Finally, this process is evaluated and refined, and if necessary the system returns to the first step and the process is repeated.  Supervised learning is a concept used by the majority of machine learning. In supervised learning, an algorithm is trained by first being provided with training data in which relationships are already formed. Supervised learning can be split further into classification problems, in which data needs to be separated into discrete classes, and regression problems, in which a quantity is predicted as a continuous value.  In unsupervised learning, an algorithm needs to learn from and make predictions about data that is not labelled. It can do this by forming clusters of similar points. Reinforcement learning allows the agent to learn from interactions with its environment. It then learns through trial and error. Machine learning models are then evaluated and selected according to their suitability to the problem.  The remainder of this topic’s content revises vectors and matrices, and their operations. It also explores setting up Python using Anaconda and Jupiter Notebook, and introduces Python concepts such as variables, conditions, loops and functions.  