The topic two content starts by introducing the concepts and topics which are covered in this topic, in particular mathematics and the importance it plays in the area of ML. The main areas covered this topic are vector and matrix operations, foundations of probability, random variable distribution, data wrangling, and using external modules and packages in Python.  Next a brief introduction to statistics and definitions is provided along with an overview of probability in ML and examples of various mathematical expressions and its applications.  The content then goes into detail about the mathematical concepts and ideas around Probability, covering Random experiments and Events, joint probability, conditional probability, and Bayes Rules. Providing use cases and examples to help to understand when and how they are used.  Then the content shifts to the topic of Random variables distribution, explaining the difference between the two types of Random Variables, Discrete and Continuous. Then covers the types of probability distributions, such as Bernoulli, uniform, and normal distribution, and central limit theorem and the differences between each.  The content then moves into the area of Data wrangling, covering topics such as replacing missing values in a data structure, scaling or normalisation of data, and encoding non-numerical data into numerical data which can be manipulated by ML.  Then the content covers ML learning concepts applied to images and text documents and how this is achieved in practice. The content covers feature extraction and how information is encoded so that it can be easily manipulated by a machine. Then describes the definitions of signal and data and the differences between them.  Then the content moves to encoding and distribution concepts in ML, encoding is important since data must be numerical to be manipulated by a machine therefore non-numerical data must be encoded to numerical values. Then moves to as normalisation and scaling of data in ML, these are important concepts since data often needs to be normalised or scaled in order to compare results accurately.  The content then moves to python coding practices and tutorials to provide practical activities to exercise the theoretical concepts covered in the module. These include the use of python libraries such as SciPy, Pandas, and Matplotlib.  