 Following the basics of machine learning, this topic covers further concepts  Machine learning and mathematics  1)  Statistics  Statistics is a branch of mathematics that deals with collecting, analyzing, interpreting and visualizing empirical data. It is a core component of data analytics and machine learning by visualising potential patterns. [1]  Examples in our daily life can weather forecasting, sports records in Olympics, medical studies to validate new medication, election, transportation and so much more.  Basic concepts include:    Event – outcomes of a random experiment   Probability – the measure of the likelihood that an event will occur   Joint probability – the measure of calculating the likelihood of two events occurring together at the same time    Conditional probability – the likelihood of an event based on the previous event   Bayes rule – conditional probability of an event, where additional information is known for  the previous event  1)  Random variables  Random variable: a variable whose possible values are generated from a random experiment.    Discrete random variables – only takes a finite number of values such as flipping a coin  where only two possible numbers exist. Data is counted    Continuous random variables – takes on any value in a given interval and includes infinite  range such as height of a person or population. Data is measured  2)  Distributions of random variables   Bernoulli distribution: discrete probability distribution which describes the probability of  success and failure such as flipping a coin    Uniform distribution: it defines equal probability within a given range and can be used to  card games in casino    Normal distribution: dataset is symmetry about the center with no bias left or right with bell  curve such as blood pressure, marks on a test, etc    Central limit theorem: it can be useful to analyse a large amount of dataset because the  mean of sample datasets can be considered as normal distribution such as random survey of height of the students in the university  3)  Data Wrangling : Data munging which involves removing errors from data and make them more accessible by transforming raw data. This is essential process in data analysis to produce accurate results  4)  Feature extraction: It can be helpful in processing raw image data into more manageable  data and contribute a variety of fields including face recognition etc  5)  Data vs signal   In machine learning, data is used to predict and learn pattern to produce output and it includes qualitative data which is descriptive information and quantitative data. We learned two types of quantitative data – discrete and continuous  On the other hand, signal is the waveform format used to send data over channel such as sound wave [2]. In machine learning, it has numerous possibility to contribute in the future  6)  Encoding vs distribution  It includes the process of transforming categorical values into numeric value so that machine can learn the data. After encoding process, the data can be distributed in normal, uniform, skewed distribution and so on.  7)  Scaling: After collecting data from a variety of range containing many features, it has to be  normalized so that machine can learn the data in a same scale.  