 In  this  topic,  I  learned  some  basic  information  about  probability.  I  came  to  know  about  the  joint probability, conditional probability and Bayes rule. Also, I came to know about random variables and types of random variables like Discrete random variables, and continuous random variables. I learned about distribution of random variables and their types like Bernoulli distribution, uniform distribution, normal distribution.  The most important thing I learned in this topic is data wrangling. Data wrangling is the process of cleaning the data from dataset i.e., dealing with messy, unstructured and incomplete data. Also, there is  important  thing  I  came  to  know  i.e.,  encoding.  Encoding  techniques  helps  to  convert  to  integer values that machine can understand. Encoding techniques have many types such as ordinal encoding, One-Hot encoding, and label encoding.  There  is  also  very  important  thing  I  got  it, that  is  scaling  and  normalisation.  Scaling  is  the  process converting a set of values to a new range of values and normalisation is a scaling technique used to transform  the  value  of  dataset  into  a  common  range.  This  helps  to  improve  the  performance  of machine learning algorithms.  Answers to python questions:  I used the mean value of the feature because mean is more accurate when the distribution of the data value is symmetrical and there are no clear outliers. As the median of feature ‘f21’ is 15.315 and mean for the same feature is 16.48676531 and difference is just 1.1717 and that is not much difference so, we can consider mean value. I used the label encoding or ordinal encoding and this encoding converts the label into integer values and the encoded data represents the sequence of label. In the field ‘Diagnosis’ there is only one type of data i.e., alphabet and can  not find the relation between these two alphabet. To find the relationship we used categorical encoding.    There is no difference between the graphs before and after the scaling. In the task we used the normalisation of data from range 0 to 1, where 0 is the minimum value in the dataset and 1 is maximum value. The graphs shown according to range from 0 to 1.  