Overview In topic 2, we focused on the following learning goals:    Vectors and basic vector operations   Matrices and matrix operations   Basic concept of probability   Python programming: using diﬀerent modules and packages  Statistics Basic Deﬁnitions Random Experiment A random is a process for which the outcome cannot be predicted with certainty. Some common examples are: toss of a coin, roll of a dice, etc.  Event A set of outcomes of a random experiment. For example, a coin toss experiment has two possible outcomes: {‘head’, ‘tail’}. Event A could be either ‘head’ or ‘tail’.  Probability The measure of the likelihood an event will occur. It is quantiﬁed as a number between 0 and 1.  The probability of event A occurring is denoted as P(A).  The probability of event A not occurring is denoted as P(A) = 1 – P(A)  Joint Probability Consider a random experiment where we toss two coins. In this case, the probability of seeing “heads for coin toss 1” and “heads for coin toss 2” is an example of two events.  If two events, A and B are independent then the joint probability is:  P(A and B) = P(A)P(B) that is, (1/2) x (1/2) = 1/4  since head probability in each event is 1/2  Conditional Probability The probability of event A, given the occurrence of another event B  P(A|B) = P(A and B) / P(B) given P(B) is not zero  Bayes Rule  The probability of an event A based on another event B that is related to A.  For example, if cancer is related to age, Bayes’ rule information about a person’s age can be used to more accurately assess the probability that the person has cancer. It is states as:  P(A|B) = P(B|A)P(A) / P(B) In which P(B) != 0  Random Variables A variable whose possible values are the generated outcomes of a random phenomenon. For example, if we toss a coin, the possible outcomes are head or tail.  Basically saying:  -  Let X=1 means ‘head’ -  Let X=0 means ‘tail’ -  Now say P(head) = 0.6 and P(tail)=0.4 -  Then we can say P(X=1)=0.6, P(X=0)=0.4  Discrete Random Variables Consider the example of rolling some dice.  P(X < 5) = 1 – (2/6) because 2 out of 6 possibilities are excluded  Distributions of Random Variables A simple explanation of a probability distribution is that it’s a function that links each outcome of a statistical experiment with its probability occurrence.  Bernoulli Distribution A discrete distribution and deﬁned for a binary random variable with values X=0, and X=1.  Example: let X = 1 if a success occurs, and X = 0 if a failure occurs.  Then X has Bernoulli distribution:  Uniform Distribution It’s called the uniform distribution because there is an equal probability of selecting values between 0 and 1. Uniform distribution can be deﬁned for both discrete and continuous random variables. For a discrete variable:  For continuous random variable:  Normal Distribution This is deﬁned for continuous random variables and is the most popular distribution. The reason behind its popularity is that many natural phenomena are approximately following a normal distribution.  Central Limit Theorem Basically, if you have a population with mean ‘m’ and standard deviation ‘d’ and take suﬃciently large random samples from the existing population, then the distribution of the sample is approximately normally distributed.  Feature Extraction Deriving a set of features from the raw data where each feature contains information on the target variable. (look at the example in 2.5 lecture page)  Text Data Representation Since computers only understand numbers, all words, images, and ideas must be turned into numbers before we can feed them into a computer for processing. Data representation is an important step towards creating models from large scale data. Machine learning required data to be described by ‘features’ called atributes or parameters before use. Choosing the right features is important to creating a useful model.  Data vs. Signal Whatever a user is sharing is considered data.  In digital electronic or signal processing, the signal is considered as the quantity that varies over a parameter such as space or time. Like audio signal or heartbeat signal.  When data is represented in an organized manner, that becomes information. Signal is another form of data. The signal can be interpreted by the physician to understand the issue of the heart.  Encoding and distribution Encoding Unlike the case of quantitative values, categorical values cannot be understood by machines. To solve this, encoding techniques are used to convert to integer values. For example, Deakin campuses can be represented as [0, 1] for Burwood and Warun Ponds respectively. And the majors IT and Engineering as [0, 1]. Hence [Burwood, IT] can be expressed as [0, 0]  Distribution This refers to the way that values in a dataset are distributed. This can be important as it may aﬀect the performance of the machine learning algorithm. For example, if values are not evenly distributed, this can cause the algorithm to be biased toward certain values.  There are many types of distributions, like normal, uniform, skewed distributions. The normal distribution is the most common one.   Scaling and Normalization Scaling In machine learning, scaling is the process of converting a set of values to a new range of values. For example, if we have two features, height in ti. and weight in pounds, we may ﬁnd that weight will dominate the model more than height. This is not ideal for geting optimal results. Hence, we scale both features in a certain range.  Normalization A scaling technique used to transform the values of a dataset into a common range. It’s a useful technique in ML as it can improve the performance of many algorithms by standardizing the data.  Statistics in Data Science Random Variables A random variable is a variable whose possible values are the generated outcomes of a random phenomenon.  Data Loading and Saving Data Wrangling Data wrangling is the process of acquiring, analyzing, and manipulating raw data into a suitable format for faster processing and evaluation.  Data wrangling can be divided into    Data exploration.   Data processing, such as missing value handling, encoding  categorical values.   Data distribution.   Data Exploration An example of this would be to retrieve information about a ﬁle:  Which outputs:  Data Description such as mean, std Coding df.describe() will output:  Finding missing values and replace them with data mean, median or mode.  Output:  Reading: htps://vitalﬂux.com/pandas-impute-missing-values-mean-median- mode/#How_to_decide_which_imputation_technique_to_use   Data Encoding Categorical value encoding  Before:  Atier:  (Notice integer 1 represents newspaper, and 0 represents electronics)  