 Topic 2 Evidence of Learning  1.  Summarise the main points that is covered in this topic.  As we know machine learning is mostly based on maths, to get a better result from the models we need to apply these mathematical concepts. Following are some of the concepts we mainly focus on this topic.    Basic vector operations   Matrix operations   Probability concepts   Using different modules and packages.  1.  Statistics : basic definitions – In this topic we learn about what are the basic concepts of  probabilities that we gona need in machine learning. Some of them are.  i. ii. iii. iv. v. vi.  Random experiment Event Probability Joint Probability Conditional Probability Bayes Rule  2.  Random variables – This topic explains what is a random variable and what are the two  types of random variables, they are  i.  Discrete random variables ii.  Continuous random variables  3.  Distributions of random variables – In this topic we learn that when we link each outcome of a statistical experiment with its probability of occurrence, we can get a probability distribution. Some of the distributions are, i. Bernoulli distribution ii.  Uniform distribution iii.  Normal distribution  4.  Data wrangling – Data wrangling is an important step in data science process. In this process we take raw, unstructured data and make them more suitable for analysis.  5.  Feature extraction – Feature extractions is a process that using the raw data, we must create a set of features, each of which contains details about the target variable.  6.  Text data representation - The process of converting massive quantities of information  into models involves data representation. Before being used, data must first be specified by "features" called characteristics or parameters. To create an effective model, selecting the appropriate attributes is necessary.  7.  Encoding and Distribution – Encoding is a technique we used to convert categorical  values into integer values. Distribution is describing how data sets values are spread out. Value distribution affects how well  a machine learning system performs.  8.  Scaling and Normalisation – scaling is a process that we used to convert values in  different ranges to new range because unscaled values may cause problems to the model. When we transform the values to a common range its called normalisation.  9.  Data Wrangling - The process of gathering, analysing, and altering raw data into a  suitable format for quicker processing and review is known as " Data Wrangling". Data wrangling has 5 steps.  i.  Data loading and saving ii.  Data exploration iii.  Data processing, such as missing value handling, encoding categorical values iv.  Data distribution v.  Scaling  