In  this  topic,  mainly  focus  on  vectors,  matrix,  probability  and  python  packages.  It  is  important  to understand concepts to apply machine learning approaches. Statistics provide a wide range of definitions and  concepts  to  understand  real  word  usages.  Probability  has  a  big  roll  in  data  set  identification  and distribution. Probability is defined as an event as a set of outcomes of a random experiment. We learnt the  main  probabilities  such  as  join  probability  and  conditional  probability  and  Bayes  rule.  Bayes  rule describes the probability of an event A  based on another event B that is related to A. We learnt what is random variable is, Random variable is a variable whose possible values are the generated outcomes of a random phenomenon. There is main two types of random variables, one is discrete random variable and continuous random variable. We learnt about main distributions such as Bernoulli distribution, Uniform Distribution, Normal Distribution and Central Limit Theorem.  Data Wrangling is also very important concept which is learnt this topic. How to clean, transform, and organize a dataset to make it suitable for analysis. It is a combination of manual and automated processes, and it is a crucial step in the data science pipeline.  After that we need to do a feature extraction and set up a model for the data set. For set the features we need to convert all the features in to the numerical values.  Computers  only  understand  numbers.  Words,  images  and  ideas  must  be  turned  into  numbers before you can feed them in to a computer for processing.  In machine learning, scaling refers to the process of converting a set of values to a new range of values. In a dataset, we have several features. The raw or initial features can be of different ranges, which may cause problems while training a model therefore we need to scale the all the features before feeding the model. Normalization is one of most important scaling techniques which is used in machine learning algorithms.  Statistic  and  mathematical  formulas  are  learnt  since  it  is  good  to  understand  the  concepts  behind  the python  functions.  Mean  , Medium  and  the  mode  are  the  very  important  statistical  calculations  values which is provide a description about data distribution.  W3School  is  my  one  of  most  interesting online  resource  which  is  used  to  understand  the  basic  of  the python concepts.  Kaggle also a good online platform to understand the machine learning.         