The second module in the unit covers the concepts of probability and data wrangling. It involves converting the real-world data like images and text into numbers, which can be understood by computers to process that data. IT is converted in form of features on which we can apply data wrangling techniques.  PROBABILITY AND ASSOCIATED CONCEPTS  ML is a broad concept and probability is one of the crucial part of it. It involves small topics like random experiments, events, sample space, ways to calculate probability, concept of joint and conditional probability. These terma are well-defined and studied with formulas and examples in the module, followed by a couple of theorems: Bayes Rule. Next, there are different types of data distributions, such as Bernoulli’s, which is more like a boolean value for the defined random variable. Next is uniform and normal distributions.  The  last  topic  under  probability  in  this  module  was  the  Central  Limit Theorem.  DATA WRANGLING  Data wrangling is an important technique that needs to be studied before studying ML or as an important part of it. It involves acquiring the data, making it suitable for use in our analysis, cleaning it, analysing it, manipulating it and then visualising of required to come to desired conclusions and then send for application of further ML strategies’ executions  on  it.  Its  comprised  of  data  loading  and  saving,  data  exploration,  data processing, distribution and scaling. Let’s go into a few details.  DATA ACQUISITION  Data acquisition involves getting the data from the real worls. It includes surveying, recording values, and convertin gthe to numbers. Here, feature(vector) etraction from images and text has been covered using methods like bag-of-word representations.  DATA PROCESSING  The next step is processing the data, such as filling in missing values, handling outliers or  finding  a  proper  way  to  take  them  into  account.  It  also  involves  encoding  the categorical  data  into  numers  using  different  techniques  or  scaling  the  data  using efficient  procedures  like  normalisation,  that  includes  min-max  scaling, to  convert all the data into comparable ranges.  DATA VISUALISATION  It is a crucial part of ML and data wrangling, since it helps us visualise and understand better, improve our analysations. It helps us identify the different types of distributions involving normal, skewed and uniform. It’s a good way of finishing wrangling or data pre-processing.  PYTHON IN DATA WRANGLING  Since data wrangling is a crucial part of ML, it can be all apllied through Python and its  dictionaries. All  the  ways  and parts  of  it stated  in  above  few paragraphs  can be executed  through  python’s  numpy,  matplotlib,  pandas,  sklearn  and  many  other libraries. It has been covered with correct syntax and proper usage of required classes and functions in the module.  