Topic 2 Data Wrangling key areas  -  Vectors and basic vector operations -  Matrices and matrix operations -  Basic concept of probability -  Python programming: different modules and packages  1.  Statistics -  Random experiment: the outcome cannot be predicted with certainty - -  Event: a set of outcomes of a random experiment Probability: likelihood of an event will occur(between 0 and 1) P(‘A) = 1-P(A) Joint probability P(A and B) = P(A)P(B) -  Conditional probability  -  P(A|B): the probability of A given B = P(Aand B) / P(B)      P(B) != 0  -  Bayes rule: an event A based on another event B that is related to A  = P(A|B) = P(B|A)P(A)/P(B)  2.  Random variables  : a function that can assign probabilities to events of interest in a random experiment.  -  Discrete random variables (countable number of values)  : defined using a Probability Mass Functions(PMF)-assigns a probability to each possible value of random variable and summing them to 1. : Cumulative Distribution Function(CDF)  -  Continuous Random Variables  : defined using Probability Density Functions(PDF), it assigns a probability to a range of values of random variables  integrating to 1  3.  Distribution of random variables  : a function that links each outcome of a statistical experiment with its probability of occurrence  -  Bernoulli distribution  : a discrete distribution and defined for a binary random variable with values X=0 and X=1.  -  Uniform distribution  : both discrete and continuous random variables  -  Normal distribution  : for continuous random variables, most popular as many natural phenomena are following it  -  Central limit theorem  : the sampling distribution of the mean will always be normally distributed as long as the sample size is large enough Images as data Find features that can be represented with numbers: feature extraction  4. - -  Create model: mean, variance, other statistics (feature matrix) 5.  Text data representation -  bag of word representation     6.  data - -  distribution: the way that the values in a dataset distributed and it impacts on performance  encoding: to convert features with categorical value to integer values  of ML. normal, uniform, skewed distribution normal: most common, bell shaped curve symmetrical around data`s mean uniform: the values are evenly distributed across the range of data skewed: the values are not evenly distributed and are instead concentrated on one side of the range. Scaling: converting a set of values to a new range of values  - -  Normalisation: a scaling technique used to transform the values of a dataset into a common  range, to improve performance  