SIT307 – Summary of Content  2.1 Statistics: basic definitions  This section covers the basics of probability and how to denotate it. Covering how to show probability, how to display sample space, how to work out probability of A given B and how to work out A and B.  2.2 Random Variables  Given heads and tails outcome is assigned to variable X where heads is X=1 and tails is X=0. In this way it is possible to have the potential outcomes assigned to this variable.  There are two types of random variables:  -  Discrete: Values that are set and countable and restricted between certain values. For  example, a 6-sided dice.  -  Continuous: Values that have no set number but can theoretically be infinitely many.  An example of this is size of hands or average distance walked by a person.  2.3 Distributions of Random Variables  Random variable distributions are functions in which the outcome of an random experiment is correlated with each outcome and the chances that it will occur.  2.4 Data Wrangling  Data wrangling is a set of ways a dataset can be manipulated, this includes transforming it, cleaning it and organizing it. It is primarily a set of tools that can be used to take raw data and turn it into something that can be analysed.  2.5 Images as Data  How would one solve the issue of using a ML algorithm to use an image similar to one above to identify whether it was indoors or outdoors? The first step is to put the image into a form the computer can read and interpret. Thus, it needs to be represented in a numerical vector of features.  In the image above, 9x15 blocks have divided it and through these blocks defining features can be calculated, including colour, shapes, texture and brightness. Of these features, averages, variances and other statistics can be drawn from the feature matrix.  2.6 Text Data Representation  Since computers only understand numeracy, different forms of data must be converted into a computer interpretable format.  2.8 Data VS Signal  Data: A collection of facts coming in two forms qualitative and quantitative. Qualitative is data that can be collected that is non numerical, i.e., the descriptions of different cars. Quantitative data is numerical, i.e., the number of people in a crowd or number of red cars passing on the road.  Signal: Impulses that can be used to transmit data. For example, the signal from someone’s heartbeat can be graphed and interpreted.  2.9 Encoding and Distribution  As opposed to quantitative values, the abstract non numerical data that computers cannot interpret must be converted to integer values. This is known as encoding, some methods are OrdinalEncoder, One-Hot Encodings, and LabelEncoder.  Distribution is the specific way in which a data set is distributed. There are multiple distribution types. There is the most common, the normal distribution, in which a bell shape curve is centred on the mean and data is distributed as to be certain standard deviations away from the mean on either side.  of student  Example where N = Number of students and h = height  2.10 Scaling and Normalisation  Scaling: When multiple features of a dataset have vastly different ranges, scaling may be necessary to better train the model, this assures that one feature doesn’t overly dominate the training of the model.  Normalisation: Is a scaling method, transforming a dataset into a defined range. For example, one range might be between 0 and 1. Meaning that each value in dataset feature up to a maximum value which represents 1, is scaled between it and 0. This prevents the model from not performing as well and perhaps being skewed. The method just listed is known as  the min-max normalisation and the formula is:  