unsupervised machine learning, is the use of certain algorithms to analyze and cluster datasets  that are not labeled, to discover particular patterns and data allocations without the help of  human. In the fields of artificial intelligence, deep learning, and data science, clustering is a  crucial component of data cleansing. Metrics of distance form the basis of grouping. Distance  measures essentially determine whether data elements can be clustered together by measuring the  distance or proximity between them. Euclidean Distance, Manhattan, cosine, mahalanobis,  jaccard, Minkowski Distance and Hamming Distance are the types of metric distance discussed  in topic three class.  Unsupervised machine learning tasks include clustering. When using a clustering algorithm, you  will be providing the algorithm with a large amount of unlabeled raw data and allowing it to  identify any groups of data it can. These collections are known as groups. A cluster is a  collection of data points that are related to one another based on how they relate to other data  points in the area. Pattern finding and feature engineering are two applications of clustering.  Clustering might be a useful spot to get some insight when you're beginning with data that you  have no prior knowledge of.  Different clustering algorithms exist that can manage various forms of distinct data. The most  popular clustering method is K-means clustering. It is the most straightforward autonomous  learning method and is centroid-based. This method seeks to reduce data point variation within a  cluster. Additionally, it's how the majority of people first encounter autonomous machine  learning. However, when there are groups with different densities and widths, k-means has  difficulty clustering the data. You must generalize k-means as outlined in the Advantages part in  order to combine such data. Outliers in clusters. Outliers may pull centroids or they may form  their own cluster in place of being disregarded.    