 In this topic, I have learned about Mathematical concepts which are being used  for  Machine  Leaning,  for  example,  Probability,  Statistics  and  Vector operations. And later learned how  to apply all these using Python programming language.  First  and  foremost  is  Probability,  in  simple  words  probability  means  chances  of something can/will occur. Or in other words, it is the number between 0 and 1, where  0  represents  impossible  event  and  1  represents  inevitable  event.  If  the probability is close to 0 that means it is less likely to occur and vice versa. In the ML concept, probability helps define model accuracy.  Random  Numbers  are  another  great  concept  I  have  learned  this  topic.  Random numbers  are,  as  the  name  suggests,  random,  therefore  probability  of  random numbers is always one divided by numbesr of possible outcomes. There is a great history  behind  how  computers  can  generate  random  numbers,  where  it  only seems to be a random phenomenon.  Let’s talk about Images, how do computers understand images? They don’t have brains like us, which can tell the difference between genders, age and colors? The only thing the machine understands is numbers. So, to make machine understand the image, we just need to convert it in numeric form, after doing this, the image properties  like  brightness,  saturation,  RGB  colors  will  be  features  of  the  data.    Within  a  few  decades  of  discovery,  modern  image  recognition  can  identify genders,  age,  animals,  human  expressions  and  much  more.  Self-driven  cars  are the best example of image recognition. In terms of text data representation, the easiest way is to create the data of the number of occurrences in the text.  Also,  this  topic,  I  have  learned  about  Encoding  of  feature  data.  I  have  talked about how we convert image data into numeric form, that is encoding. In short, converting  complicated  data  into  numeric  form  which  can  be  understood  by Machine  is  encoding.  For  example,  categorical  data  can  be  converted  into numerical using different encoders.  Like  Encoding,  Scaling  and  Normalizing  of  data  is  also  very  crucial,  there  are number  of  Machine  Learning  models  which  works  better  if  the  data  is  scaled, normalized or both, overall, if the data is scaled into required range, it is easier for Machine  Learning  model  to  understand  and  predict.  Later  this  topic,  I  learned how to apply all these things using Python programming language.  Topic2 Quiz result:     