TOPIC 2: DATA WRANGLING  Learning the basic definitions in statistics such as a random  ● experiment, it is a process by which the outcome cannot be predicted with certainly. Event is the set of outcomes of a random experiment, probability is the measure of likelihood that an event will occur, joint probability can be defined jointly for more than one event, conditional probability is the probability of some event A, given occurrence of another event B.  Concept of the bayes rule as it describes the probability of an  ● event A based on another event B that is related to A, it is a way of finding a probability when we know certain other probabilities. Example is dangerous fires are rare 1%, but smoke is fairly common 10% due to barbecues, and 90% of dangerous fires make smoke.  Random variables as it is the variable whose possible values are  ● generated outcomes of a random phenomenon. It consists of discrete random variables which have countable number of values and continuous random values which takes infinite values.  Understanding the distribution of random variables, a probability  ● distribution is a mathematical function that describes the probability of different possible values of a variable, examples are Poisson distribution, Standard normal distribution.  Concept of data wrangling, it is defined as the variety of processes  ● designed to transform raw data into more readily used formats. Example of data wrangling includes, merging multiple data resources into a single dataset for analysis, identifying gaps in data, deleting data that is unnecessary.  Learning more of feature extraction including example of feature  ● extraction techniques to make the machine analyse and categorise images.  Concept of text data representation, data representation is  ● important in creating models from large scale data.  Encoding and distribution, distribution refers to a way values are  ● distributed in a dataset.  Understanding the difference between scaling and normalisation,  ● since for normalisation you are changing the shape of the distribution while for scaling you are changing the range of your data.  Learning statistics in data science that is the random variables,  ● importing packages in python.  Data loading and saving, as it is a branch of data wrangling,  ● converting random data into pandas data frame.  Concept of data exploration, finding the output of codes,  ● describing data such as mean, std.  ●  Learning more of categorical value encoding.  