Statistics:  This topic’s lessons started off by introducing me to statistics and the basics of it. Statistics plays major role in machine learning which includes things like probabilities. Some instances that involves the use of statistics includes:  Random Experiment: a process for when the outcome cannot be predicted with certainty.  Event: is a set of random experiments outcomes.  Probability: an event that measures the likely hood of the outcome.  There are a few types of probability as well which include:  -  Joint Probability: can be defined for multiple events. For example, tossing a coin two times in a row which will result in two events.  -  Conditional Probability: a possibility of some event a which is given the occurrence of  another event B.  Bayes Rule: The essence of Bayes rule is the mathematical rule that is provided that explains how you should change your current existing beliefs in light of new occurrence. This rule describes the probability of event A based on another event B that is related to A.  Random Variables and Distributions:  Random Variables is a outcome of a random phenomenon and is divided in to Discrete which is a variable that takes on values that can be counted and Continuous which is a variable that takes any values at all.  Some of the most important ways of random variable distributions are:  -  Bernoulli Distribution: defined for a binary values, x=0, x=1. -  Uniform Distribution: is defined for both continuous random variables.    Normal Distribution: is defined for continuous variables.  -  Central Limit Theorem: is of sample mean approximates a normal distribution as size  gets larger.  Data Wrangling is the process of data cleaning and transforming a dataset in order to make the data suitable and ready to be analyzed.  Data Representation:  Data can be represented in multiple formats for machine to analyze. The data can be as images. Images data can be analyzed by dividing the image into smaller images and using each small blocks to analyze for things like color averages, shapes, textures and brightness for example. Mean, variance and other statistics can be computed in order for the machine to analyze the image properly.  Text data representation can also be passed into the machine to analyze and learn. Text data can be presented using bad of words technique in machine learning which count the number of time the word appear in each documents.  Data Vs Signal:  Data is a collection of facts. Data can be qualitative data which is numerical data and it is used to classify or categorize things. Another type of data is quantitative data which refers to numbers which could include things like costs …etc. Data can be discrete which is whole number and continuous data which can be any values of any range. Signals on the other hand is a form of data, for example heart signals are data to be collected by the doctor to analyze patients palpitation.  Encoding and Distribution:  Encoding is a process of techniques used to convert into integer values for better understanding and representation of the data. Distributions refers to the way that the dataset is distributed.  Scaling And Normalization:  Scaling is when we convert a set of values in to a new range of values whereas normalization is a technique that is used to transform the values of data set into common range.  Normalization  Scaling  