1. Summarize the main points that is covered in this topic.  a) Probabilities:  i. Probability: a measurement of likelihood that a event can occur ii. Event is a set of outcomes of a random experiment. iii. Sample space is the set of all possible outcomes. iv. 0 <= P(A) <= 1  b) Joint probability:  i. Probability can be defined jointly for more than one event. ii. Focus on their relationships (Disjoint, independent)  c) Conditional probability:  i.  The conditional probability is the probability of some event A, given the occurrence of another event B.  ii. P(A|B) = P(A & B) / P(B)  d) Bayes Rule  i.  Explains how to update the existing knowledge given something new has occurred  ii. Describes the probability of an event A based on another event B that is  related to A.  iii. P(A|B) = P(B|A)*P(A) / P(B)  e) Random Variables: values are outcomes of a random phenomenon  i. Discrete random variables  1. Probability Mass Functions(PMF): the probability of each discrete outcome 2. Cumulative Distribution Function(CDF): assigns the cumulative probability  of a certain function (area under the curve to the left from a point of interest)  ii. Continuous random variables  1. Probability Density Functions (PDF): assigns a probability to a range of values of the random variable; describes the shape of distribution  f) Distributions of random variables  i. Bernoulli distribution  1. a discrete distribution 2.  is defined for a binary random variable with values (x=1 or x=0)  ii. Uniform distribution  1. Discrete variables: 1/N 2. Continuous variables: 1/(b-a)  iii. Normal distribution  is defined for continuous random variables  1. 2. bell-shaped curve with mean and standard deviation  iv. Central limit theorem: If you have a population with a mean and standard deviation, and take sufficiently large random samples from the existing population, then the distribution of the sample means will be approximately normally distributed.  g) Data Wrangling  i.  Identifying and correcting errors and inconsistencies in the data  The process of cleaning, transforming, and organizing a dataset to make it suitable for analysis 1. 2. Handling missing values 3. Combining multiple datasets 4. Converting the data into a format that is suitable for analysis  Identifying and removing outliers  5. 6. Encoding (text to integers) 7. Transforming the data (min-max, z-score) 8. Aggregating the data into useful summary statistics  