Summarize  the  main  points  that  is  covered  in  this  topic.  1.  Statistics：random experiment，Event，Probability，Joint Probability，  Conditional Probability，Bayes Rule.  2.  Random  variable  (random  variable)  represents  a  real-valued  single-  valued  function  of  various  outcomes  of  a  randomized  trial.  Random  events can be quantified regardless of whether they are directly related  to quantities, i.e., they can be expressed in quantitative terms.  3.  Distributions  of  random  variables:  Bernoulli  distribution,  Uniform  distribution, Normal distribution, Central limit theorem.  4.  Data wrangling, also known as data munging, is the process of cleaning,  transforming, and organizing a dataset to make it suitable for analysis.  This often involves a combination of manual and automated processes,  and it is a crucial step in the data science pipeline.  5.  Data  wrangling  can  be  a  complex  and  time-consuming  process,  as  it  often involves dealing with messy, unstructured, and incomplete data.  Some common tasks that are involved in data wrangling include:  Identifying and correcting errors and inconsistencies in the data Handling missing or incomplete values Combining multiple datasets Converting the data into a format that is suitable for analysis Identifying and removing outliers Normalizing the data Aggregating the data into useful summary statistics  6.  Feature Extraction: Creating a subset of new features by combinations  of the existing features.  7.  Encoding  means  encoding,  which  is  the  process  of  representing  the  result of information classification in a symbol system that can be easily  recognized  by  computers  and  people,  and  is  a  technical  means  for  people  to  unify  their  understanding,  unify  their  views,  and  exchange  information with each other.  8.  Feature scaling is a method used to normalize the range of independent  variables or features of data. In data processing, it is also known as data  normalization and is generally performed during the data preprocessing  step.  