In this topic, we have come around the concept of Data Wrangling, which is also known as the pre-processing phase, where we clean, transform, and organize our dataset. This is done to better analyse the dataset and make better insights from the model.  Before diving into Data Wrangling, we refreshed our concept of Statistics and Probability Distribution, a field of Mathematics which deals with the Probability of Events and Random Variables. Some of the essential concepts in this field include Events, Probability, Joint Probability, Conditional Probability, Bayes Rule, and Random Variables. There are known to be two types of Random Variables: Discrete and Continuous. For the first type of Random Variables exists the Bernoulli Distribution, and for the latter includes the Normal Distribution. There is also a common distribution for both these variables, called the Uniform Distribution. We also came across the Central Limit Theorem which introduces the mean and standard deviation.  The data which needs to be pre-processed can exist in the form of an image or in the form of text as well. Since Computers can comprehend and process numbers, both forms of data are converted into numbers through various techniques and processes (with the use of various features). Speaking of features, pre-processing consists of a process called Feature Extraction, which will derive a set of features from raw data. Once all the features are extracted, we usually get a ‘Feature Matrix’.  We then came across some of the types of pre-processing methods. We have Encoding, which translates our categorical data into its numerical translation. There is also distribution which collects instances of data and converts them into an accumulated form. There can be normal, uniform, and skewed distributions. Making this distribution can make the data biased and make the model to perform poorly. We then have scaling, which refers to the process of converting a set of values into a new range of values. And finally, we have Normalization, which enables to transform the values of dataset into a common range.  Finally, we were introduced to some of the techniques used in Python in Data Wrangling. It encompasses all the concepts we have mentioned above.  