 Topic 2 modules introduced students to Data wrangling and the importance of mathematics in ML. The topic’s learning began with a refresher into statistics, its importance within ML, basic terminology, and examples before continuing into a review of vectors, matrices, probabilities, and the operations associated with each before leading into the main topic of the topic.  Data wrangling, the process of cleaning, transforming, and organizing datasets for better analytical suitability, was the primary topic of the topic and students were introduced to the common, often essential tasks that data wrangling included. The tasks included, error/inconsistency identification and correction, handling of missing or incomplete values, conversion of data into more suitable formats, outlier identification and removal, normalization of data and aggregation of the data into useful statistical summaries.  Students were introduced to feature extraction in which features from raw data would be derived for ML modelling. Tying into the importance of statistics from early modules, finding features that can be represented numerically means that we can apply statistical operations on the features to computer values such as the mean, median and variance. Students also learnt how to differentiate between signals and data.  The remaining modules for the topic described encoding and distribution and scaling and normalization. These operations were used to clean, transform, and organize datasets and formulas were provided along with examples. These modules preceded introductory Python3 tutorials to apply these operations using numpy, matplotlib and pandas before having students complete an individual quiz and complete a series of Python tasks revolving around a .csv file.  Conclusion:  While the mathematical portion of the modules served as reintroductions, the data wrangling portion of the modules were completely new. Thankfully, the presented content, lecture and PowerPoint proved to quite comprehensive and understandable. Summary notes on each topic were created to solidify the new information and additional practice for the use of some of the pandas functions was need.  