Main learning points:  Representation Variable type discrete random variables  Probability Mass  Functions (PMFs)    A discrete graph  Comment Each possible outcome is assigned a size (assume bar plot) to represent probability  Continuous random variables  Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) Probability Density Functions (PDF)  Returns cumulative probability Probability represented by a range of values in the variable    A signal is an instance of communication (not necessarily between two beings or  communicated intentionally), which can take a myriad of forms, and encapsulates some information.    Normalisation is a form of scaling that sets the dataset values to a common range (min-max  scaling)  The implications of scaling were explored in this topic’s pass task. Findings were that:    Both Z-score standardising and MinMaxScaling methods do not distort the feature's  distribution's shape:  o  Kurtosis and skewness, which characterises shape, do not change.    The same data, differently scaled, all have the same histogram shape.  The correlations between features are also unaffected by scaling.  Conceptualisation of why standard scaling (making mean=0 and std=1) does not change a feature’s shape:  1.  The original distribution is moved left or right on the x-axis until its mean is at 0.    Simply moving the whole distribution from left to right does not change shape or any  distances.  2.   The distances between each point and the mean are shrunk or inflated by some constant  so that the average 'distance from mean' becomes 1. This change will not interfere with any relative distancing among the distribution's points.   For example, if the planet was shrunk or inflated by a constant, the distance from Melbourne to Sydney will still be twice as long as the distance from Melbourne to Canberra.  The effect can be replicated by drawing dots on MS paint. Selecting the points, then moving the selection left/right and resizing its width will not change the relative distances within the selection. The analogy for min-max scaling would be resize the selection of dots to a fixed height. Likewise, the dots’ relative distances do not change.  