The major topics that were covered during topic 6 included linear regression with examples, linear classification, logistic regression and regularized linear models and how to use python to implement these. The primary reference source was the unit site contents along with the external video links and articles provided.  The topic’s topic started with the basics of understanding how to access a trained model and covariance among the variables. Then, I gained knowledge about linear regression and how it aims to minimize empirical risk along with examples, and its formulation involving how to fit the datapoints into the line. I gained a solid idea on linear classification , and logistic regression which is used in case of categorical dependent variables along with two general approaches like ignore non-linearity and using link function. Next I compared it with linear regression to realise that while the former uses maximum likelihood estimate, the latter uses mean squared error. Next, I walked myself through some new ideas including logistic loss function, gradient descent optimization, and convex & non convex functions. Then, I acquired knowledge about generalization and model complexity of linear regression. Then, learnt about linear regression formulation , what are the odds and testing the model. Later, got an overview of training a logistic regression model, and iterative optimizing. I also explored how to compute the gradient of the objective function using two different approaches using the first derivative and the second derivative. Next, I went through some examples of logistic regression, model complexity , under-fitting/over-fitting, bias variance decomposition, variance bias trade off, regularised linear models, regularisation impact, L1 regularisation(LASSO), L2 regularisation(Ridge) etc. At the end, I studied the implementation of regularised linear regression using python program which dealt with both L1 and L2 regularized model , logistic regression in python with computation of performance metrics.        