In this topic we have learned many new concepts related to machine learning. We learned about model assessment and selection in machine learning.To understand it and To properly evaluate a trained model, we need to separate a test set of labelled data that has not been used in training the model. This is important to ensure an unbiased estimate of the accuracy of the model. The test set is used to assess the performance of the learned model in terms of accuracy. We also learned that using the same data points for training and testing the model can lead to biased accuracy estimates.Also in this topic we learned about relevance and covariance among features or variables in linear regression. Covariance measures the linear relationship between two variables and can be used to determine if they are positively correlated, inversely correlated, or independent. During this topic's machine learning lessons, we covered a variety of topics, including model assessment and selection, relevance and covariance among features, linear and curvilinear relationships, and linear regression. We also delved into linear classification and logistic regression, both of which are used for binary and multi-class classification problems.Also We discussed the difference between linear and curvilinear relationships, and how linear regression fits a line to observed data. We also talked about the importance of avoiding over-fitting or under-fitting, and how to measure the error in prediction using performance measures such as mean square error or mean absolute error.Furthermore, we learned about logistic regression, which uses a log function to model the probability of a data point being assigned to a certain class. We also discussed the training process for logistic regression models using maximum likelihood estimation. Finally, we touched on the importance of minimizing the difference between predicted and actual values using the logistic loss function.  Moreover,the lessons provided a strong foundation for understanding machine learning and its applications, giving us a range of tools and techniques to work with in our future endeavors.We can use iterative optimization methods such as gradient descent or coordinate-wise gradient descent to minimize the logistic loss function with respect to the regression coefficient vector.We also learned about Concver optimization problem,It have only one optimal solution, which is globally optimal. In contrast, non-convex optimization problems may have multiple locally optimal solutions. Iterative optimization methods are used to minimize the objective function until it stops changing.I have continued my learning this topic about model complexity and the concepts of over-fitting and under-fitting in machine learning. Over-fitting occurs when a model captures irrelevant noise points in the data, while under-fitting is the result of an extremely simple model. To find the right balance, we need to consider the bias-variance trade-off, where models with low bias have high variance and vice versa. The sweet spot is to find the model complexity where the risk of bias, variance, and noise is at a minimum. Regularization is introduced as a technique to control model complexity.  I have learned this topic that there are several methods for feature selection in machine learning, including principal component analysis, correlation-based feature selection, and recursive feature elimination. One of the methods that can be used to find the most significant features in a dataset is linear regression. Linear regression is used to evaluate the strength of the relationship between each feature and the target variable. By looking at the absolute coefficient values, we can identify the most important features. The specific feature selection method to use depends on the    challenge at hand and the characteristics of the dataset.  In conclusion, we have learned about multiple concepts this topic.In this topic I have learned about the model appraisal elements of supervised learning algorithms. I have gained both a theoretical and practical understanding of how to use these approaches to build a supervised model for practical problem-solving using Python. Now from next topic, I will delve deeper into linear and nonlinear supervised learning.Also I have added this topic quiz with this document for reference.     