Relevance and Covariance among features or variables  For the purpose of calculating the covariance, the product of the standard deviations of each variable is utilised. If the covariance between two variables is positive, then it is likely that both variables will move in the same direction over time. If the value of the covariance is negative, it indicates that the two variables are more likely to move in directions that are opposite one another. It is not possible to draw any conclusions about the nature of the relationship between the variables based solely on the magnitude of the covariance. The coefficient of correlation can be calculated by taking the covariance and dividing it by the total standard deviation of the two variables in question. A correlation of 1 shows that the relationship is perfectly linear and perfectly positive, a correlation of -1 indicates that the relationship is perfectly linear and perfectly negative, and a correlation of 0 indicates that there is no linear link.  Linear Regression  One statistical method is known as linear regression, and it involves making use of a linear equation as a model for the relationship that exists between two variables. The second variable, called the independent variable, can change regardless of the first variable, which is called the dependent variable. In linear regression, finding the line that best fits the data requires minimising the sum of squared deviations between the data points and the line's projected values. This is called finding the line of best fit.  Linear classification  A model known as a linear classifier is one that categorises each data point according to a class by applying a linear combination of the characteristics that are being explained. A model may, for example, determine the species of a dog based on a combination of information on the dog's weight, height, colour, and other characteristics. This could be done, for example, with a dog. These models do very well when it comes to categorising information because they uncover a one-of-a-kind mathematical combination of qualities that puts data points that have the same class together and splits them into separate groups when they have different classes.  Logistic regression  The statistical model known as logistic regression works particularly effectively when used to problems involving classification and forecasting. In order to model the log-odds of an event taking place, a linear combination of one or more independent variables is typically utilised. A categorical dependent variable is utilised in logistic regression in order to ascertain the probability that a given observation belongs to a particular category. When it comes to the identification of fraud, for example, it can be utilised to recognise patterns of conduct that are more likely to indicate fraudulent acts being taken. The logistic function, also known as the sigmoid function, is utilised in the process of logistic regression in order to convert a real input into a number that falls between 0 and 1. The output of the logistic function is used to derive the probability that an event will take place.  Model complexity  The number of independent variables or predictors that a model needs to take into consideration in order to generate accurate results is referred to as the "features" of the model. A linear regression model with a single independent variable is much simpler to understand than a model that contains a number of variables or non-linear relationships. A more complicated model may be able to capture more of the data's inherent variance; however, training such a model may be more difficult, and the model itself may be more prone to overfitting. In spite of the fact that a simpler model could be easier to train, there is always the possibility that it will overlook critical aspects of the data. The key to successful use of machine learning is finding a happy medium between the amount of complexity in the model and its ability to make accurate predictions. The figure that follows provides a visual representation of the distinction between a basic model, shown on the left, and a more complex model, shown on the right. Consider the number of parameters in proportion to the overall complexity of the model.  The following factors will have the most significant impact on the complexity of the model as well as its capacity to make predictions based on new data:    The number of parameters: When a model contains a large number of tuneable  parameters, commonly referred to as degrees of freedom, it is known to be more susceptible to overfitting. This is a fact that has been well established.    The range of values taken by the parameters:  When the parameters of a model are allowed to take on a wider variety of values, the likelihood of the model being overfitted increases.    The number of training examples: When there are fewer datasets from which to  choose, it is simpler for models, even the most fundamental ones, to provide results that overfit the data. To overfit a dataset that contains millions of training samples, a model that is extremely sophisticated is required.  