 Assessing Trained Models  How can we get an unbiased estimate of the accuracy of a trained model?  Separate a test set from the training set. Pretend you haven’t seen the test set yet. This ensures  1. that the test set labels do not influence the trained model and is critical for an accurate estimate of model performance. The testing set and training set must be separate, no training data can be used in testing and vice versa.  Linear regression fits a linear equation to the training data set in an attempt to model the relationship between two variables. Training data comes in the form of data points xi ,  yi  where i = 1,…,n. (where x is the feature vector and y is the output).  “To put it simply, covariance measures the amount of information a specific xi can provide for yi . Cov(x,y). Which x shows the mean of xi and y s the mean of yi .”  There are three outcomes of this:  - - -  x and y are positively correlated (covariance is greater than zero) x and y are inversely correlated (covariance is less than zero) x and y are independent.  (covariance is equal to zero)  Pearsons Correlation Coefficient  This is a measure of the linear correlation between two variables x and y, which has a value between 1 and –1 where 1 means there is a total positive correlation, 0 means there is no correlation, and –1 means there’s a negative linear correlation.  The Pearsons correlation coefficient does not indicate other types of correlation other than linear relationships.  Minimizing error function teaches us how to get the minimum squared error to make predictions based on the trained model.     Linear Regression Formulations - In linear regression our goal is to find a line that is similar to  the true relationship between our two continuous variables.  A line has two parameters which can be used to find and plot the straight line. o  w  - the slope of the line o  b – the y-intercept of the line.  Logistic Regression Formulation - “Training a logistic regression model means using  training data to estimate the regression coefficient vector.”  Generalization & Complexity Logistic Loss function Bernoulli Distribution  Iterative Optimizing Coordinate-wise Gradient Descent Optimization  Reflection  This module clarified the various measures that can be used to quantify relationships between variables. The focus was on linear modelling for topic 6 and this content was already familiar to me. However, I learned plenty of new information regarding classification, model evaluation and complexity. Previously I did not understand logistic regression, but now I can apply this in my code.  