The topic 6 content starts by introducing the topics which will be covered this topic and recaps the previous content. This topic focuses on concepts relating to model assessment and selection. The content reminds us that it is important to always evaluate models to ensure they will perform well on future untested data. One popular method of testing a model is to withhold some of the testing data during training and use this to evaluate the performance of the trained model.  The content then shifts to the topic of Relevance and Covariance among features and variables, which starts by recapping the idea behind linear regression which is when the pattern of the data plotted on a graph follows a straight line. The content then explains how linear relationships are measured using covariance and the mathematical formula to calculate the covariance of two points, including how to interpret the results. The content then covers the Pearson correlation coefficient and the concepts as well as the mathematical theory involved which is covered in detail with diagrams to illustrate the different types of linear relationships.  The content then shifts to an in-depth recap of linear regression which is explained using an example of a dataset that contains a list of students’ math aptitude test results and their statistics performance results. The process involved to train a model to predict future statistics performance based on a student's math aptitude results is explored in detail, including the process of evaluating the model's performance. The ideas are explored further in a video showing the entire process.  The content then moves to linear regression formulation and how a line is defined that corresponds to hypothesis h. The mathematics and process to identify the linear line and how to fit this line to the data points are explored in detail. This is further elaborated on with a video demonstration that outlines the process thoroughly.  Then the content shifts to the topic of linear classification, which is the separation boundary between two classes, which is just the hypothesis until proven correct. Then logistic regression is explained and covered in detail.  The content then moves into the area of generalisation and complexity, generalisation is implemented after training a linear regression model to start predicting the output of new input data, and the error rate can be calculated using the Mean Squared Error rating or another type such as the Mean Absolute Error, etc. The complexity of a model grows as the number of features grows, this is important to keep in mind to avoid overfitting the training data.  The content then shifts to logistic regression formulation and how to apply the method mathematically, covering the process in detail. Then the content explains the process of training a logistic model in practice with a thorough mathematical explanation, including the logistic loss function, and computing the minimum as well as the iterative optimising approach and coordinate- wise gradient decent optimisation.  Then the content shifts to providing a real-life example of logistic regression using an example of doctors investigating patients who have had heart attacks and how this corresponds to anger and anxiety. This example is useful because it uses binary conditions of either a yes or no for the answers of whether or not the patient has a second heart attack and if they are on anger treatment, then a  scale is used for measuring the anxiety trait. The results of this example experiment seem to indicate that anger treatment has a negative effect, and anxiety trait has a positive effect on the risk of a second heart attack.  The content then explores the area of model complexity in detail, explaining the difference between overfitting and underfitting a model as well as finding a model that is just right for the job. Overfitting is the result of an overly complex model, and underfitting is when the model is less complex than required. The concept of bias-variance decomposition is explained in detail including the mathematics. Then the trade-off of the variance bias is discussed, comparing the differences between how the projected accuracy of the output is affected by each degree of variance and bias, which is illustrated with diagrams.  The content shifts to the topic of regularised linear models, which is an extra term in the loss function that helps to avoid overfitting, the ideas, and the process is covered in detail including the mathematical side. The impact regularisation has a prediction accuracy of the model, as well as the different types of implementations such as L1 Regularisation (LASSO), and L2 Regularisation (Ridge).  Then the concept of linear regression for feature selection is touched on briefly, providing an overview of the ideas involved in the process and why it can be helpful to evaluate the strength of relationships between features and target variables.  The content then provides practical examples in Python code to demonstrate this topic’s concepts, including the code implementation of regularised linear regression and coding a logistic regression model in Python.  