1)  Linear regression endeavors to display the connection between two factors by fitting a linear  equation to the noticed information, as such a condition that charts as a straight line. 2)  Pearson's Correlation  Coefficient is a proportion of the straight relationship between two factors x and y, It has a value among +1 and - 1 where 1 demonstrates all out sure linear correlation, 0 is no direct connection, and - 1 shows complete negative straight relationship 3)  Logistic regression is the proper regression analysis to direct when the result upsides of the  component vectors are paired.  4)  There are two approaches for logistic regression i-e ignore non-linearity, using link function 5)  Model intricacy of linear models increments with the quantity of highlights. We ought to know about model intricacy particularly in the event that we have a restricted arrangement of preparing information. The explanation is the gamble of over-fitting on this restricted arrangement of preparing information. Utilizing a predetermined number of elements may likewise be risky as it could cause under-fitting.  6)  Principal component analysis (PCA), relationship based include choice, and recursive component  end are run of the mill highlight determination strategies.  Summary of reading list:  1)  This prescient strategy can work in different regions including business, natural, ecological,  conduct and sociologies. Here is some more knowledge about how these regions utilize linear regression:    Business teams   Sports analysts   Environmentalists   Financial analysts  https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/when-to-use-linear-regression  2)  Logistic regression is a classification algorithm that predicts a binary outcome based on a series of independent variables. In the above example, this would mean predicting whether you would pass or fail a class. Of course, logistic regression can also be used to solve regression problems, but it's mainly used for classification problems.  https://learn.g2.com/logistic-regression  Part 3: 1)  Linear Regression is utilized to deal with relapse issues while Logistic Regression is utilized to deal with the order issues.  2)  Linear Regression gives a persistent result however Calculated relapse gives careful result. 3)  The reason for Linear Regression is to find the best-fitted line while Logistic Regression is  one stride ahead and fitting the line values to the sigmoid bend.  4)  The technique for computing misfortune capability in Linear Regression is the mean squared  blunder while for Logistic Regression it is greatest probability assessment.  5)  Linear Regression, the coefficient understanding of free factors are very clear (i.e.while  holding the wide range of various factors steady, when a unit expansions in this factor, the reliant variable is likewise expected to build/decrease).In calculated relapse, relies upon the family and connection you use, the translation is unique.  6)  Logistic Regression Logistic Regression Used to foresee the ceaseless ward variable utilizing a given arrangement of free variables. Used to anticipate the unmitigated ward variable utilizing a given arrangement of autonomous variables.The yields delivered should be a consistent worth, for example, cost and age.The yields created should be Downright qualities like 0 or 1  