 This topic was learning about Linear model.   We learnt about linear regression. Linear regression in essence is the relationship between two variables, and how you are able to predict the value of one variable based on the other variable and an equation. One variable is Calle the independent variable and the other is called the dependant variable. The independent variable is used to predict the dependant variable, as per its name, the dependant variable depends on the independent.   Pearson correlation coeﬃcient is another interesting way of measuring the relation between two variables. However it must be stated that though it is used to judge the relationship between two variables, it does not mean those variables have a deﬁnitive relation. The Pearson correlation coeﬃcient is denoted as r and rages between 0 to 1 for positive linear relation , 0 to -1 for a negative relation and 0 means no relationship.   A simple linear regression formula consists of y = a + bx, where:    Y is the dependant variable or commonly known as the predicted variable   a is what is called the y-intercept or what the value of y is when x = 0   b is the slope of the graph, which shows the change in y per unit change in x   Finally x is the independent variable, or the variable that explains the dependant variable   After ﬁtting the linear model to a graph, we have generalisation and model complexity. A trained model has the ability to perform on unseen data which is called generalisation, which makes it a derivable property to have.   Having ﬂexibility to ﬁt training data to a model is called its complexity. Having poor complexity is not good as it does capture any potential relations that might be present in the training data. Therefore having a complex model can ﬁnd intricate relations between data points.   When assessing regression models and their performances, MSE and MAE are often used to indicate the diﬀerence between the actual value and their predicted value. MSE refers to the means squared error, is used when there are large errors to signify the performance.   MAE is the average diﬀerence between signiﬁcant values in the dataset and the predicted value.  