Summary  A models performance must be assessed so that it can be improved.  To perform effective assessments, the data set available to develop a model is divided into two  portions. One for training the model, and another for testing.  This ensures that the model can be tested independently of its training, providing a method to ensure  it is not biased towards the training data.  Linear Regression  Linear regression is the process of fitting a linear equation to the training data.  Only useful to compare linear relationships. Not useful for exponential or other relationships.  Curvelinear Relationship. A relationship between between two variables that is not linear.  More difficult to detect.  Relationship Strength. A strong relationship means that there is less variance from the model. A  weak relationship means that there is lots of variance from the model.  No Relationship. There is no relationship if the variables are independent of each other.  Linear Classification  Linear classification differs from linear regression in that the output values are discrete.  Problem may be binary (two categories) or multi-class.  A linear classification model seeks to find a line that divides the classes such that a data point on  either side of the line is in a different class.  A linear regression can be used for this, but large or small values in either class will decrease its  accuracy. This is due to the approach of minimising error, rather than focusing on item class.  To avoid this issue, the conditional probability of an item belonging to a class can be used as the  output.  This is done using linking functions, such as a Logistic link function, Probit link function, or tanh  function.  Generalisation and Complexity  These additional features can be non-linear, thus can reflect curvelinear relationships in a linear  manner.  This allows non-linear relations to be determined at the linear level of complexity.  An arbitrary number of additional features can be added to increase the fit to training data. This adds  to model complexity.  A model can be under or overfit. An underfit model will have large variance against the training data.  An overfit model will have small variance against the training data, but large variance against the test  data.  For this reason data must be held back from training the model and used to test its performance.  In general, we should adopt the simplest model which adequetely represents the data. 