Main Points  Linear Regression attempts to model the relationship between two variables by  fitting the leaner equation to the observed data.  Regression analysis is used to find out possible equations that fit data. Once we have  the regression equation, we can apply the linear model to make predictions. When  the correlation coefficient presents that data is likely to be able to predict future  outcomes and the scatter plot of the data appears to from a straight line, then it is  possible to use simple linear regression to find the predictive function.  Linear Regression Formula  When it attempts to find a line similar to h, the linear equation should be applied to  summarize the relationship between two quantitative variables:  y = h(x) = wx + b  Logic Regression is the appropriate regression analysis to conduct when the output  values of the feature vectors are binary.  When to use: for categorical dependent variable  Still to fit a linear function to predict form: use training data to estimate the  regression coefficient vector  Instead of squared error function, use maximum likelihood estimation to estimate  Training Logistic Regression Model  Logic Loss Function: maximizing likelihood is equivalent to maximizing log of the  likelihood function as both of them providing same solution  Taking the log of the function it is still able to find the maximum or minimum of the  function since the logarithmic functions are monotone increasing functions.  The usual approach is to take derivative and equate it to zero to solve for, however,  the solution does not have a closed form, so it is necessary to solve the problem  iteratively.  Regularized Linear Model  Regularizer: an additional term in the loss function to avoid over-fitting. Try to keep  the parameters more normal or regular, it does not allow regression coefficients to  take excessively large value. It implies the model is highly dependent on certain  features.  Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator  Performs: variable selection, regularization  Enhances: prediction accuracy, interpretability of the model  