1) The Pearson correlation coefficient may be used to ascertain the relationship between two numbers. It gives you an assessment of the degree to which two variables are related. The value of the Pearson's Correlation Coefficient might be between -1 and +1. 0 indicates no correlation, whereas 1 indicates a significant connection between them. 2) By identifying the best fit linear line between the dependent and independent variables, the supervised machine learning method known as "linear regression" pinpoints the linear relationship between them. 3) Hypothesis testing is used to check if our beta coefficients are significant in a linear regression model. Every time the linear regression model is run, we check the coefficient's significance to see if the line is meaningful or not. 4) When the dependent variable is binary, a statistical method known as logistic regression is employed to build machine learning models. Logistic regression is used to describe data and the relationship between a dependent variable and one or more independent variables. 5) A binary cross-entropy function known as the loss function, which measures prediction quality, is used. Binary labelling and prediction appear to be important for the loss function. the forecast is produced by a prediction system when the actual label is either 0 or 1. 6) "Model complexity" refers to the difficulty of the function that is being tried to be learned. The type of training data is frequently what determines the appropriate level of model complexity. 7) Regularisation is a machine learning technique used to try to make the model more universal. This shows that, in addition to training and test data, our model also performs well with future data. 8) The word "regularisation" refers to techniques for calibrating machine learning models to lower the adjusted loss function and prevent overfitting or underfitting. Regularisation enables us to precisely match our machine learning model to a given test set, which lowers the model's error rate. 