 Linear regression, with its closed form solution using Singular Value Decomposition, enables the creation of custom features (including non-linear ones) in a generalised form. However, as the number of features increase, the model complexity also increases which could lead to potential overfitting with limited training data or underfitting with insufficient features.  Logistic regression differs from linear regression whereby it models the logit instead of the output directly. Logistic regression models the log of odds against a class label using a linear model. The odds of a class are the probability of the class occurring divided by the probability of it not occurring. Training a logistic model involves estimating the regression coefficient vector using the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE). The likelihood function is determined from a Bernoulli distribution due to the binary nature.  Model complexity relates to the under and overfitting of data. Overfitting occurs when a model captures irrelevant features (i.e. noise) in the data whereas underfitting refers to the a model which is too simple. The bias variance trade-off looks to find a balance between these extremes, where the optimal model has low variance and low bias indicating that it is not too complex and is reasonably accurate.  Regularisation is a technique employed to control model complexity. Regularisation prevents overfitting by adding a regulariser term to the loss function. The most common regularisers include:  Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO); and     Ridge.  Regularisation greatly reduces variance but can increase bias, highlighting that the optimal model is a balance between bias and variance.  To help identify which features are the most significant, methods such as PCA, correlation-based selection and recursive feature elimination can be used. The method used generally depends on the specific problem and dataset features. Further, linear regression can be used for feature selection by assessing the correlation of the features with the target variable.  