Relevance and covariance are two measurements that are used to examine the relationships between characteristics or variables in a collection. They do, however, capture distinct facets of the relationship.  The degree to which one variable gives information about another variable is referred to as relevance. Correlation coefficients are commonly used in statistical analysis to assess relevance. The Pearson correlation coefficient, which assesses the linear connection between two variables, is the most often used correlation coefficient. It spans from -1 to +1, with -1 being a perfect negative linear relationship, +1 representing a perfect positive linear relationship, and 0 representing no linear relationship. A correlation coefficient with a greater absolute value suggests a stronger linear link between the variables.  Covariance quantifies how much two variables fluctuate together. It measures the linear relationship between variables, but unlike correlation, it does not standardise the relationship. Covariance can be positive, suggesting that the variables tend to move in the same direction, or negative, showing that they change in opposing ways. However, the degree of covariance does not offer a clear indicator of the strength of the link.  The linear equation should allow us to summarise and study relationships between two continuous (quantitative) variables.  Linear classification is a technique used in machine learning and pattern recognition to categorise data points based on a linear decision boundary. It is assumed that the classes may be divided in the feature space by a linear hyperplane.  Logistic regression is a popular linear classification approach that uses a logistic function to estimate the likelihood of a data point belonging to a specific class. It uses maximum likelihood estimation to calculate the weights of the linear model.  The sophistication or capacity of a machine learning model to capture patterns and relationships in data is referred to as model complexity. It is governed by the number of parameters, features, or hidden units in the model, as well as the model's flexibility or expressiveness.  In general, a more complicated model may match more complex patterns and connections in training data. When compared to simpler models, it has the potential to attain greater accuracy and reduced training error.   