 Linear regression attempts to model the relationship between two variables by fitting a linear equation to the observed data, in other words an equation that graphs as a straight line.  Curvilinear relationships are very variable, more complex and less effectively identified than simple linear relationships.  Logistic regression is the appropriate regression analysis to conduct when the output values of the feature vectors are binary.  By linear classification, we mean that the separation boundary between any two classes is linear.  Model complexity of linear models increases with the number of features. We should be aware of model complexity especially if we have a limited set of training data.  Logistic regression is named after the function used at the core of the method, the logistic function. The logistic function is also called the sigmoid function.  Over-fitting happens when we find an overly complex model based on the data. Under-fitting is the result of an extremely simple model.  The reason is the risk of over-fitting on this restricted set of training data. Using a restricted number of features may also be problematic as it may cause under-fitting.  In linear models, the model complexity grows with the number of features. Utilizing all data dimensions as features may fit the model on background noise as well as true patterns.  A regulariser is an additional term in the loss function to avoid overfitting. It is called a regulariser since it tries to keep the parameters more normal or regular.  Lasso (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator) (also seen in uppercase: Lasso) is a regression analysis method that performs both variable selection and regularization in order to enhance the prediction accuracy and interpretability of the statistical model it produces.  Principal component analysis (PCA), correlation-based feature selection, and recursive feature elimination are typical feature selection strategies.  The essential idea behind utilizing linear regression for feature selection is to assess the strength of the relationship between each feature and the target variable.  